The Project Gutenberg eBook of Report on the Migration of Birds in the
Spring and Autumn of 1881, by J. A. Harvie Brown

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Report on the Migration of Birds in the Spring and Autumn of 1881

Author: J. A. Harvie Brown
        John Cordeaux
        Phillip M. C. Kermode
        R. Barrington
        A. G. More

Release Date: May 30, 2021 [eBook #65471]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Tom Cosmas produced from files generously provided on The
             Internet Archive. All resultant materials are placed in the
             Public Domain.

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK REPORT ON THE MIGRATION OF BIRDS
IN THE SPRING AND AUTUMN OF 1881 ***





                                REPORT
                                ON THE
                          MIGRATION OF BIRDS
                   IN THE SPRING AND AUTUMN OF 1881.


                                  BY

             Mr. JOHN A. HARVIE BROWN, Mr. JOHN CORDEAUX,
            Mr. PHILIP M. C. KERMODE, Mr. R. M. BARRINGTON,
                                  AND
                            Mr. A. G. MORE.



"It is much to be wished that some of the light-keepers of our
lighthouses would make notes of their observations concerning seals,
whales, birds, fishes, and other animals. Such records would be
valuable; and might not some of them occupy their leisure hours
in the study of Natural History?... Interesting observations
would then certainly be made, and new facts added to our stores of
knowledge."--'Chambers's Journal,' p. 831; Dec. 23, 1876.



LONDON:

PRINTED BY WEST, NEWMAN & CO., 54, HATTON GARDEN.

1882.


LONDON:

PRINTED BY WEST, NEWMAN AND CO.

HATTON GARDEN, E.C.




PREFACE.


The following Report contains a summary of investigations of a
Committee, appointed by the British Association for the Advancement
of Science, at York, in 1881, to consist of Professor Newton, Mr. J.
A. Harvie Brown, Mr. John Cordeaux, Mr. Philip M. C. Kermode, Mr.
J. Hardy, Mr. R. M. Barrington, and Mr. A. G. More, for the purpose
of obtaining (with the consent of the Master and Elder Brethren of
the Trinity House, the Commissioners of Northern Lights, and the
Commissioners of Irish Lights) observations on the Migration of Birds
at lighthouses and lightships, and of reporting upon the same at
Southampton in 1882. Mr. Cordeaux to be the Secretary.

An abstract of the Report was read by Mr. Philip M. C. Kermode at the
meeting of the Association, held at Southampton, in August, 1882.

The returns relating to Scotland have been arranged by Mr. J. A. Harvie
Brown; for the East Coast of England, by Mr. Cordeaux; the West Coast
of England, by Mr. Kermode; and those for the Coasts of Ireland, by Mr.
R. M. Barrington, and Mr. A. G. More.




CONTENTS.


                                         PAGE

  East Coast of Scotland                    1

  East Coast of England                    16

  West Coast of Scotland                   43

  West Coast of England                    58

  Irish Coast                              78




                             THIRD REPORT:

                                  ON

                        THE MIGRATION OF BIRDS

                                IN THE

                      SPRING AND AUTUMN OF 1881.




EAST COAST OF SCOTLAND.


Iceland and Faroe.--Schedules, &c., were, as before, forwarded to
Iceland and Faroe. Returns have come from Faroe, the results of which I
prefer to keep under a separate heading, as they usually come in when
the rest of the Report is well advanced.

Of _Saxicolinæ_ there is one record on May 13th, when one Wheatear was
seen on board the 'Arcturus,' thirty miles east of the Orkney Isles.
Of _Hirundinidæ_, one seen at Thorshavn on May 22nd. Of _Otidæ_,
one Long-eared Owl was seen at Vivalvig, Strómó, on June 27th. Of
_Ardeidæ_, one Night Heron, _Nycticorax griseus_ (Linn.), was killed
at Videreijde on May 4th. In autumn several Turtle Doves, _Columba
Turtur_, were seen, and one shot at Nólsó on Sept. 7th. Of _Rallidæ_,
one Water Rail was killed in the hospital garden, at Thorshavn, on Oct.
31st. Of Laridæ, one Pomatorhine Skua (young), was killed near Kirkebó
on Oct. 26th. Of Rallidæ, one Coot, _Fulica atra_, was shot at Nólsó on
Nov. 8th.

The winds prevailing at the time of the above records for the most part
southerly and easterly in Faroe, but on May 13th and 22nd southerly and
westerly, and also S.W. on Nov. 8th.

The usual papers were sent to twenty-six stations, as before. With
Iceland, Faroe and Fair Isle we have on this line thirty stations in
all.

Twelve stations on the East Coast of Scotland returned filled-in
schedules, against eight last year--1880--out of the twenty-six. Many
of these returns are very light, but those from Isle of May, Bell Rock
and Pentland Skerries are unusually full, showing great highways of
migration, and also that from Sumburgh Head. We shall have more to say
on this in our general remarks at the end of the Report.

The stations are as follows, commencing in the north. The dates upon
which the various stations have sent in returns are shown in the list
by the positions of the asterisks preceding the consecutive numbers.
The work done compares favourably with that of 1880, but we receive as
yet only twelve returns from twenty-six stations; however short, others
will be acceptable, even if only negative information.

Those sending no returns have not in all cases given reasons. Attention
to this is earnestly requested (vide 2nd Report, p. 2).

The numbers are the same as in the 2nd Report, 1880, but another for
Fair Isle has been inserted as "7B."



East Coast of Scotland.

  1879, '80, '81.
    *    *         4. North Uist, Shetland         230 ft. Robert Burnett.
         *    *    5. Whalsey Skerries, Shetland   145 " Neven Kerr.
                   6. Bressay, Shetland            105 "
    *    *    *    7. Sumburgh Head, Shetland      300 " John Wilson.
                   7B. Fair Isle                    ?  " --Lawrence.


Orkney.

    *    *    *    8. North Ronaldshay             140 " John Tulloch.
                   9. Start Point                   80 "
    *    *    *   10. Auskerry                     110 " John MacDonald.
         *        11. Hoy Sound (Low)               55 " Alexander Harp.
                  12. Hoy Sound (High)             315 "
                  13. Cantick Head                 115 "
    *    *    *   14. Pentland Skerries            170 " D. MacDonald.


Mainland.

         *    *   15. Dunnet Head, Caithness       346 " David Laidlaw.
              *   16. Holborn Head, Caithness       75 " David Charleson.
         *        17. Noss Head, Caithness         175 "
    *    *        18. Tarbat Ness, East Ross       175 " W. Davidson.
              *   19. Cromarty, East Cromarty       60 " Robt. S. Ritson.
                  20. Chanonry Point, Elgin         40 "
                  21. Covesea Skerries, Elgin      160 "
                  22. Kinnaird Head, Aberdeen      120 "
                  23. Buchan Ness, Aberdeen        130 "
              *   24. Girdleness, Aberdeen         185 " John McGill.
                  25. Montroseness, Aberdeen       124 "
    *    *    *   26. Bell Rock, off Fife Coast     93 " James Jack.
    *    *    *   27. Isle of May, Firth of Forth  240 " J. Agnew.
         *    *   28. Inch Keith, Firth of Forth   220 " R. Grierson.
                  29. St. Abb's Head, Berwick      224 "

Notes received from other sources will appear, as before, after the
paragraphs on each species, as it is desirable to keep the two sets of
observations distinct. I would also refer here to my "Third Report on
Scottish Ornithology," already referred to in 'Migration Report, 1880,'
p. 4, as having been read, but not yet printed (Feb. 1882).

Notes have been kept upon about 25 species of waterfowl and about
50 species of land birds by our reporters on the east coast. Spring
migration I have not kept distinct in this Report. Obituary at each
station, inappreciable at Scottish stations, will be noticed where
necessary under General Remarks.

Owing to Mr. T. Anderson having been almost entirely sailing to and fro
in the Mediterranean, I regret that I can show no returns this year
from Mid-Atlantic, which is to be regretted, as it would be instructive
to learn what are the results of a contrary prevailing wind to that of
1880. Possibly, however, Mr. R. Gray may yet be able to give us some
returns of interest culled from the Mediterranean log, which may raise
other points of interest.

The following short notes on weather are compiled from the 'Times'
Register for 1881, and checked by my own schedules:--A sudden change
of temperature at the beginning of August, colder by about two degrees
than July. Rainfall excessive over all Scotland, except northern half
where it was less than average; cold and wet all August, about six
degrees colder than corresponding period of 1880. Prevailing wind
W., seldom veering to E., until Aug. 23rd; thereafter in Scotland
prevailing E. and N.E.; on Aug. 31st N. winds prevailed, N.E., and
continued till about Sept. 6th; thereafter W. and N.W. till 16th; then
S. and S.E. till 21st; from 22nd to 24th E.; 24th to 30th S. to W.;
Oct. 1st to 10th S.; 10th to 13th strong W.; 14th gale from E., and
continued E. and S.E. to end of month. S.E. to S. strong winds and
gales, or light from Nov. 1st to 11th; S.W. strong and a gale 15th and
16th; frost on 17th; 22nd S. to S.W. and W., heavy gales in N. and W.
Unsettled, with frequent changes of wind and weather, many W. gales
till end of month, and till Dec. 8th. N. and E. on both coasts from
Dec. 9th to 12th, S. on 13th, and S. and W. on 14th; S. and W. till
20th, when E.; and W.N.W. on 21st. Prevailing W. and S.W. till end of
month.

_Notes._--Prevailing winds at the time of the rush of _Falconidæ_ were
W., veering from S.W. to N.W. in Aug.; after 23rd E.; on and after
Aug. 31st till Sept. 6th N. At XIV., on Aug. 19th, a Sparrowhawk was
seen sitting on the ground, and almost daily for some time after. The
nearest breeding-place I know of is at Tongue, N. Sutherland; wind at
the time was light S., and weather clear. No doubt it is difficult to
discriminate often between local and general migrations of Hawks by our
data; thus at XIV. also, on Aug. 23rd and 24th, a Sparrowhawk was seen
flying south on the former date, and N.E. on the latter; on the former
date the wind was light S., on the latter N.E.; this would therefore
appear like a local migration.

The only addition to the list of stations is Fair Isle, No. 7 b.

In all spring records the numbers of stations begin at the most
southerly, or with the higher numbers. In all autumn records the
numbers of stations begin at the most northerly, or with the lower
numbers. The maximum station, or station sending most returns of the
species, is indicated when thought necessary.

Turdidæ.--Autumn: Records at Sumburgh Head, Pentland Skerries,
Girdleness, Bell Rock, and Isle of May (maximum). Earliest at Isle of
May, Sept. 22nd; latest at Sumburgh Head, Dec. 8th. Rushes at Isle of
May, Sept. 22nd to 30th (see notes _infra_); also Oct. 20th. Redwings
and female Blackbirds migrating between 14th and 24th. Great S.E. gale
on 14th. At Pentland Skerries, Fieldfares, Thrushes, and Blackbirds,
Nov. 5th and 6th, flying N.E. all day; also smaller rushes at Sumburgh
Head, Dec. 1st to 8th. Time of day: Mostly daytime, but night of 13th
to 14th at Bell Pock. "Storm burst at 10.10 a.m. on 14th." Notes: A
great rush of migrants took place at the date of 22nd to 23rd Sept.
at Isle of May (station 27), but no corresponding rush is recorded
at Bell Rock (station 26). At Isle of May it continued all day. The
weather was thick haze, approaching to fog, with a continuous downpour
of rain; wind S.E. "All the birds seen to-day appeared perfectly
bewildered." The following species occurred on 22nd alone: Thrushes,
Redstarts, one Robin, one Blue-throated Warbler (_C. Wolfi_), Swallows,
Chaffinches, one Nightjar (the first ever captured or seen here, and
sent to me along with the Blue-throated Warbler and others), one Corn
Crake (seldom seen here). Golden Plovers (large flock), Ringed Plovers,
Lapwings, "rush" of Curlews, two Snipe, Sandpipers and Waders, and
Dunlins. This great migration continued more or less all the latter
part of September at this locality, during which time there appeared
Yellow Buntings, Bramblings, Wheatears (or Stonechats), Pipits, and
Wagtails; numbers of Robins on 23rd. N.B. Later in the report under
these species I will refer back to this note.

Saxicolinæ.--Spring: Bell Rock, and Whalsey Skerries. Wheatears.
Earliest at Bell Rock, April 14th; latest at Bell Rock, May 2nd.
Rush on May 2nd, at Bell Rock. General Notes:--Accompanied by many
other species not recognised; on that day also a large bird struck,
rebounded, and fell into sea.--Autumn: Whalsey Skerries, Sumburgh Head,
Pentland Skerries, Bell Rock, Isle of May, and Inch Keith. Wheatears.
Earliest at Sumburgh Head, Aug. 14th; latest at Pentland Skerries,
Sept. 30th. Rushes scarcely appreciable, Aug. 22nd and 28th, at Whalsey
Skerries, Sumburgh Head, and Pentland Skerries; and Sept. 24th and
30th, at Pentland Skerries, Isle of May, and Inch Keith. Rushes at
Pentland Skerries on several dates. Besides Wheatears, Redstarts.
Earliest at Isle of May, Aug. 22nd; latest at Isle of May, Sept. 22nd.
Whinchats (or Blue Janets), also at Isle of May, Sept. 21st. Prevailing
winds E. and S.E. General Notes (see under Turdidæ).

Sylviinæ.--Spring: Robins at Cromarty and Montroseness; only two
records. Earlier at Cromarty, March 20th, but left same date; later
at Montroseness, April 14th, flying about rock.--Autumn: Tarbat Ness,
Cromarty, and Isle of May. Robins. Earliest at Cromarty, Sept. 16th,
and were the first seen since March 6th (see Spring); latest seen Dec.
15th. At Tarbat Ness first seen Oct. 10th. Rush Sept. 22nd and 23rd,
at Isle of May (see Notes under Turdidæ); also Oct. 21st, at Isle of
May ("appear to be very small specimens.") Mr. Agnew preserved one for
me in spirits on Dec. 15th, but whether one of these small specimens
I cannot as yet say. N.B. Spanish examples are known to be very much
smaller than British (_vide_ Howard Saunders and H. E. Dresser).

Phylloscopinæ.--Autumn: Gold Crests at Sumburgh Head, Tarbat Ness, and
Isle of May. Earliest at Tarbat Ness, Sept. 10th (two seen); latest at
Isle of May, Sept. 27th. Rush, a small one, Oct. 24th, 25th, and 27th,
at Isle of May. General Remarks:--Mr. Agnew says, "I expect more," but
no more appeared in his later schedules. A general movement of this
species appreciable also about Sept. 10th to 18th.

Paridæ.--Spring: Tit. One record at Isle of May, April 23rd. General
Remark:--One alighted on lantern at 11 p.m.--Autumn: Tits at Pentland
Skerries and Inch Keith. Earliest at Inch Keith, Aug. 5th (a number at
night); latest at Pentland Skerries, Oct. 6th (one all day). Another
struck N.W. side of lantern of Inch Keith on night of 5th to 6th.
General Remarks:--Aug. 5th, at Inch Keith (as above), "earlier than
usual."

Troglodytidæ.--Spring: Common Wren. One record from Isle of May,
March 19th.--Autumn: Sumburgh Head, Pentland Skerries, and Isle of
May. Earliest at Sumburgh Head, Aug. 3rd (left); latest at Pentland
Skerries, Nov. 16th. Others Oct. 6th and 8th. Rush (inappreciable) on
these later dates.

Motacillidæ.--Spring: Bell Rock and Isle of May (only two). Wagtails.
Earliest at Isle of May, March 12th; latest at Bell Rock, April
13th. General Remarks:--The latter "running over the rocks, but
leaving at high tide, as all birds do that land upon these rocks" (J.
Agnew).--Autumn: Pentland Skerries and Isle of May (three records).
Wagtails. Earliest at Pentland Skerries (three all day), when a
gale from N., Aug. 27th; latest at Isle of May, Sept. 24th, "when a
few new-comers, having more white upon them than the few residents,
appeared." Also occurred at Pentland Skerries, Sept. 10th. Pipits at
Whalsey Skerries, Pentland Skerries, and Isle of May (few records).
Earliest at Whalsey Skerries, Aug. 28th (following Sparrowhawk), but
all left next day; latest at Pentland Skerries, Oct. 25th (six struck
at night). Rush (on small scale) at Isle of May, Sept. 24th, 25th, and
26th. General Notes:--Mr. Agnew speaks of some being always here, but
additions on Sept. 24th. Possibly Mr. Agnew alludes, however, to Rock
Pipits as the residents. The Meadow Pipit is probably the species first
seen as additions on Sept. 24th. N.B. The Rock Pipit is a larger bird
than the Meadow Pipit; please shoot one of the "resident birds" and
then one of the "additions," and if carefully compared, I think Mr.
Agnew will detect the difference.

Hirundinidæ.--Spring: Cromarty, Auskerry, Sumburgh Head, and Whalsey
Skerries. First arrivals at Auskerry, May 1st (Martins and Swallows
remained three days and then left); latest, at Whalsey Skerries, June
27th (a few flying about). Rush hardly perceptible. General Notes:--At
Sumburgh Head four pairs all summer; all disappeared on night of July
20th. That night one pair slept on the staircase-window.--Autumn:
Whalsey Skerries, Sumburgh Head, Auskerry, Pentland Skerries, Cromarty,
and Isle of May (a number). Earliest (see remarks under Spring
Migration, supra, July 20th); latest at Sumburgh Head, Oct. 1st (one
seen). No great rush appreciable, but flocks of Swallows and Martins
seen at Auskerry Aug. 1st and 4th, and on 1st at Isle of May (one found
dead previous night after heavy gales); (see Notes under Turdidæ,
supra) part of a general rush of migrants.

Fringillidæ.--Spring: Isle of May, Bell Rock, Sumburgh Head
(considerable movement). Linnets. Earliest at Isle of May, March 4th
(asleep all night on doorway): two green Linnets. Latest at Isle of
May, April 14th (seen). General Notes:--Two days previous "considerable
number of Chaffinches, which are very unusual at this season; also
one Bullfinch." From a remark of Mr. Agnew, that some of the latter
breed on Isle of May, I suspect these "Linnets" will prove to be
Twites or Mountain Linnets, _Linota flavirostris ?_ These Linnets
are also noted at Bell Rock on April 10th, and at Sumburgh Head on
March 7th.--Autumn: Sumburgh Head, Isle of May, and Inch Keith (large
movement). Earliest (Grey Linnets) at Isle of May, Aug. 18th (mostly
young, apparently in broods, in large numbers); latest at Sumburgh
Head, Jan. 14th, 1882 (three seen). Rushes (Chaffinches) at Isle of
May, Sept. 22nd to 26th (see Notes under Turdidæ). Brambling also on
24th (one sent me for identification). Siskin at Inch Keith, Sept.
25th. [General Notes:--A desultory migration, kept up of Linnets and
Siskins (which are rare on the Isle of May), occurred Oct. 4th and
5th. A Redpole on 8th, at Sumburgh Head.] A rush between Oct. 20th
and 27th at Isle of May, during which time Redpoles (20th and 24th),
Chaffinches (22nd), Bramblings (21st), one Siskin (27th), and Grey
Linnets or Twites (24th), at Sumburgh Head; about fifty, along with
ten Larks (see Alaudidæ.). Occasional birds seen at Isle of May:--Nov.
12th, one Siskin; 28th, one hen Linnet; and on Nov. 21st, at Inch
Keith, one Siskin. On Dec. 3rd, at Isle of May, one Redpole, preserved
in spirits (_vide infra_), and one Brambling, same time and place. On
the 4th, Green Linnets at Sumburgh Head, and in Jan., 1882 (latest),
three Green Linnets on 14th. In Shetland prevailing winds during the
winter were from S.W., "and consequently no strange birds visited us."
A flock of Mealy Redpoles arrived at Lerwick, and took up their abode
for a time in Mr. P. T. Garrick's garden, at Prospect House. This
movement doubtless belongs to the Spring Migration of 1882. In August
unusually large flocks of Greenfinches were observed by Mr. Service
near Dumfries; left after two weeks, and reappeared in January, 1882.

Emberizidæ.--Spring: Isle of May and Bell Rock. Earliest at Bell Rock,
March 17th (one "Snowflake" flying from N.W. to S.E.); latest (and
only other spring record) at Isle of May, April 9th (three "Mountain
Sparrows" identified as Snow Buntings).--Autumn: Whalsey Skerries,
Sumburgh Head, Pentland Skerries, Dunnet Head, Tarbat Ness, Isle of
May, and Inch Keith, Snow Buntings, numerous records, and reported as
unusually plentiful at many stations. Earliest at Isle of May, Sept.
24th, where, Mr. Agnew writes, "they are never plentiful"; latest, Dec.
10th to Jan. 28th, at Isle of May. Rushes at Whalsey Skerries, Sumburgh
Head, Pentland Skerries, and Dunnet Head, Sept. 20th to 25th (note
migration of other species at Isle of May, Sept. 22nd--see notes under
Turdidæ). Rushes spasmodical, at different places, on different dates.
Rush Dec. 3rd to 21st; after, stragglers (_i.e._, flocks of forty or
fifty).--Weather: In October winds S. and N.W., at Sumburgh Head, to
fresh E. and N., cloudy, clear, or showery. In November S. gale on 4th
at Pentland Skerries. Calm or N. on 9th, S.S.W. or S. on 14th, and on
17th S. or N. December variable from light S.W. at Isle of May to fresh
N.E. and S.E., light W. and light S.W. Besides Snow Buntings, a flock
of about 250 Common Buntings are reported from Sumburgh Head on Nov.
6th ("a compact flock"), at 10 a.m.

Alaudidæ.--Spring: A spring rush is reported at Bell Rock between
Feb. 5th and 25th; or possibly this may only belong to migration of
1880. Great numbers of Larks mixed with Rose Linnets, Starlings, and
other species, from 2 to 5 a.m.; great numbers struck; wind on arrival
light S.W., on departure fresh N.E., fog and rain. Feb. 18th, great
numbers, all Larks, greatly exhausted, seen asleep, and others struck,
but none found dead; wind light E.S.E., haze. On 19th, "small birds,
not recognised, flew about for an hour, and left at dawn"; and on 25th
great numbers, all Larks, much exhausted, at 1.30 a.m.; left after
an hour's rest at dawn, flying N.W.--Autumn: Sumburgh Head, Pentland
Skerries, Bell Rock, and Isle of May (numerous). Earliest at Sumburgh
Head, Sept. 15th (breeds here, but left to-day); latest at Isle of May,
Dec. 1st (two seen). Rushes at Isle of May, Sept. 24th; numbers on 25th
and 26th, increased up to 27th; also at Pentland Skerries (accompanying
Wheatears); also fewer on Sept. 15th, 16th, and 18th. Rush at Pentland
Skerries, striking all night, Oct. 26th; stragglers on 1st and
8th.--Weather: Fresh S. wind Sept. 1st to 8th, to fresh S.E. and clear
on 26th. Nov. 24th, at Sumburgh Head (along with Grey Linnets), fresh
S., cloudy; and Dec. 1st, at Isle of May, two seen, as above recorded.

Sturninæ.--Autumn: Auskerry, Pentland Skerries, Dunnet Head, and Isle
of May. Unusually few, but all about same time. Earliest at Pentland
Skerries and Isle of May, Oct. 20th and 21st; latest at Dunnet Head,
Jan. 15th, 1882 (date of return of schedule). General Notes:--Resident
all winter at many localities as at Auskerry ("all winter"). The
scarcity of the Starling on migration this autumn is noteworthy (_vide_
conditions of wind and weather as compared with other years).

Corvidæ.--Spring: Bell Rock and Isle of May. Earliest at Bell Rock,
March 10th (seen on balcony-rail); latest, "five Rooks," at Bell Rock,
flying about. May 1st. Rush (apparently, April 12th and 13th) at Bell
Rock (Black Crows and a good many "Grey Crows" with them). On 16th,
three Rooks flying N.--Autumn: Sumburgh Head, Pentland Skerries, and
Isle of May. Earliest July 15th, at Pentland Skerries (mixed with
Jackdaws); remained till middle of August, and then disappeared;
latest Nov. 10th, two Ravens at Pentland Skerries, flying W., but no
Rooks after Aug. 15th. Ravens also at Pentland Skerries, July 29th.
Hooded Crows. Earliest Sept. 14th, at Pentland Skerries; latest on Nov.
5th, at Pentland Skerries. Rush on Oct. 2nd, at Isle of May (large
numbers).

Cypselidæ.--Autumn: Only records at Sumburgh Head. Earliest Sept. 13th,
five seen at 6 p.m., light N.W. airs, clear; next record Sept. 16th,
one seen, light W., clear; latest Sept. 27th, one, light S.W., haze.

Caprimulgidæ.--Autumn: Only one record at Isle of May, where the first
was observed, Sept. 26th, along with a great Rush of other migrants
(see Notes under Turdidæ, _antea_).

Strigidæ.--Autumn: Records at Auskerry and Isle of May. Earliest Aug.
25th, when one "Grey Owl" seen at Isle of May, fresh E., heavy rain,
and haze; latest Dec. 19th, one reddish brown Owl, at 1 p.m., S.W.,
clear, at same station. Other dates, Oct. 15th to 18th, two Owls stayed
three days, arriving at 4 p.m. on 15th, leaving at 4 p.m. on 18th, at
Auskerry, N.W. gale, showers, and haze. Also Oct. 24th, one "light
brown" Owl at Isle of May, S.S.E., showery; also Nov. 28rd, one seen at
Isle of May, 3 p.m., S.W., clear.

Falconidæ.--Autumn: Whalsey Skerries, Sumburgh Head, Pentland Skerries,
and Bell Rock (all insular). Earliest July 28th, at Whalsey Skerries,
one Hawk flying N.; latest Dec. 14th, at Isle of May, two "large
Hawks." Rush in August and September, at Bell Rock, from which I have
twenty-two returns in that time; never so many seen here before.
Kestrels, principally at Isle of May, till Aug. 18th; latest Sept.
25th. Sparrowhawk. A rush at Pentland Skerries between Aug. 19th and
28th, or the same birds reappearing: all seen during the daytime, along
with all other Hawks. Merlin, one on Sept. 22nd, at Sumburgh Head;
another on Oct. 11th, feeding, on Snow Buntings, shot; other two seen.
Falcon, one seen flying S.W., at Pentland Skerries, on Oct. 10th.
Buzzards one (by description) flying S. at Isle of May, Sept. 27th.
"Large Brown Hawks," or simply "Hawks," occurring principally at Isle
of May. A rush between Sept. 6th and 19th, with E. winds (see General
Notes on weather). A great rush of Hawks, Eagles, &c., took place all
over the country at the latter end of September. Amongst others the
following are recorded:--Ospreys, Harriers, Common and Honey Buzzards.
Especially Fifeshire is noted (_vide_ 'Field,' Oct. 8th, 1881, p. 514).
Rough-legged Buzzards are recorded from localities in Forfar, Perth,
and Stirlingshire, at similar stations as they usually appear at when
their migration takes place, _i. e._, along almost precisely the same
lines.

Pelicanidæ.--Autumn: Records from Sumburgh Head, Pentland Skerries,
and Isle of May. Earliest July 1st, Gannets pass Pentland Skerries
daily in flocks of twelve to forty, or singly, and continue till middle
of September, which is the latest record I have. Rush past Pentland
Skerries appears to have been on Aug. 19th, when 2300 were counted
between daylight and dark, flying chiefly E., and very few going W.
On Aug. 4th large numbers at 2 p.m., at Sumburgh Head, fresh breeze,
cloudy. At this station Gannets are noted as very scarce all summer,
owing, it is believed, to scarcity of herrings.

Ardeidæ.--Spring: Only one Heron recorded at Whalsey Skerries, on
May 29th, 8 p.m., S.E. light airs, clear; fog from N.W. after 11
p.m.--Autumn: Records at Sumburgh Head, Pentland Skerries, and Isle of
May. Earliest Aug. 16th, at Sumburgh Head, flying N., chased by Gulls,
light E. airs; latest Nov. 24th, at Isle of May, one seen, strong S.W.,
showers; Rush Sept. 3rd to 6th, at Isle of May, during which time eight
were seen, all flying S., and four on the 5th, came from N., alighted
and remained; wind on 3rd fresh E., and haze; on 5th fresh N.E., clear;
and on 6th light W., and haze (see Note, _infra_). Rush also on Oct.
12th, 13th, and 14th, previous to gale of 14th, but statistics scanty.
All Herons seen at Isle of May almost invariably fly S. Prevailing
winds at Isle of May, W., till gale on 14th from N.N.E.

Anatidæ.--Wild Geese. Spring: Records at Whalsey Skerries, Auskerry,
and Isle of May. Earliest March 6th, at Whalsey Skerries, eight resting
on island for several days, E. gale, and haze; latest April 21st, at
Isle of May, large flock flying E., accompanied by Curlews.--Autumn:
Records at Whalsey Skerries, Sumburgh Head, Auskerry, Pentland
Skerries, Isle of May, and Inch Keith. Earliest "Wild Geese," Oct.
2nd, at Isle of May, thirteen flying W. in line. Earliest "Barnacle,"
only record, Aug. 12th, at Inch Keith, one flying due N.; latest "Wild
Geese," Dec. 23rd, at Isle of May. Immense flock flying N.E., 11.80
a.m., S.W., haze, approaching to fog; and another flock same day, at
12.30 p.m. Besides the above, one "Brent" Goose (?) is noted on Nov.
25th, flying N., with S.W. gale, and showers. Swans.--Spring: Records
at Sumburgh Head, Pentland Skerries, and Bell Rock. Earliest Feb. 27th,
at Sumburgh Head, two "Wild Swans," apparently much fatigued, flying
S.; latest May 6th, a flock flying N.E. Autumn: Records at Sumburgh
Head. Earliest Nov. 12th, at Sumburgh Head, eight flying S.E.; latest
Dec. 25th, at Sumburgh Head, two resting on a lock near the lighthouse,
where they frequently rest on their way south every year. Note:--If
these are the same birds each year, it is interesting as proving the
undeviating lines of autumn flight of waterfowl. Eider Ducks.--Spring:
Whalsey Skerries only; noted as arriving at breeding haunts on March
9th. Autumn: Records at Whalsey Skerries, Auskerry, Pentland Skerries,
and Isle of May. Earliest July 5th, when Eiders left the island at
Whalsey Skerries. "The Drakes had left previously," light S., haze, and
fog; latest Oct. 20th, at Auskerry, ten Eiders remained all day; they
also remain at Auskerry all winter. Rush, largest number recorded at
Pentland Skerries on Oct. 8th, when a flock of 100, mostly males, were
seen swimming past the island, light S. breeze, and fog; and forty took
shelter on Oct. 12th, at 9 a.m., at Whalsey Skerries, S.W. gale and
rain; and all left next day. Sheldrake.--Autumn: Having remained here
(Auskerry) all summer since end of June, leave in September or October.
Records from Auskerry and Pentland Skerries. Earliest Aug. 27th,
at Pentland Skerries, one found dead; latest Oct. 5th, at Pentland
Skerries, flock flying S.E. Other dates, Aug. 31st, at Pentland
Skerries, flying S.; Sept. 3rd, flying about light, not striking.
Teal.--One on Sept. 21st, at Isle of May, another at Pentland Skerries,
on Oct. 8th. Wild Duck at Isle of May, Sept. 24th, Oct. 4th, and Nov.
21st. Long-tailed Duck at Sumburgh Head, Nov. 12th (about twenty). On
Sept. 12th Tufted Ducks were abundant on Loch Leven,--the most abundant
species there,--and the young were not able to fly, "some being not
larger than a Water Rat." Other species seen were Scaup, Golden-eye,
Pochard, Teal, and Mallard (P. D. Maloch, _in lit._).

Rallidæ.--Corn Crake. Spring: One arrival noted at Cromarty on May
19th. Autumn: One in. Isle of May, Sept. 22nd (seldom seen here;
_vide_ Notes under Turdidæ); also Oct. 22nd, at Isle of May, and one
at Pentland Skerries; the two dates are both dates of rushes of other
migrants. The Spotted Crake has been recorded at several land stations,
and found to recur at several where it occurred before. Thus one at
Aberuthven Wood this season, and one at the same place three years ago
(P. D. Maloch, _in lit._).

Charadriadæ.--Golden Plover. Autumn: Whalsey Skerries, Auskerry,
Pentland Skerries, Dunnet Head, and Isle of May. Earliest Aug. 3rd,
at Pentland Skerries; latest Dec. 23rd. Rushes Sept. 21st and 22nd,
at Pentland Skerries and Isle of May; also on Oct. 17th and 18th, at
Sumburgh Head and Auskerry. Oystercatcher.--Spring: Arrived Feb. 24th
at breeding haunts on Whalsey Skerries; two recorded at Isle of May,
on April 12th. Autumn: Records mostly in August, at Whalsey Skerries;
left Whalsey Skerries on Aug. 26th; scattered birds seen at Isle of
May between 8th and 25th; three records. Lapwing.--Spring: Arrivals in
April 1st to 15th, at Whalsey Skerries and Isle of May. Rushes about
1st and 11th, scarcely perceptible. Autumn: Pentland Skerries and Isle
of May. Earliest Aug. 27th, at Isle of May; latest Nov. 22nd. Rush past
Isle of May, Sept. 22nd; "large numbers," by description, flying high
(see Turdidæ). Ringed Plover.--Only date given is Sept. 22nd, at Isle
of May, by description (see Turdidæ).

Scolopacidæ.--Curlew. Spring: One record at Isle of May, March 4th,
four flying N.E. Autumn: Sumburgh Head, Pentland Skerries, and Isle
of May. Earliest July 20th to 30th, at Isle of May; latest Dec. 31st,
also at Isle of May. Rushes Sept. 22nd, at Isle of May, numbers; and
at Pentland Skerries, a few. Maximum of records at Isle of May, but in
all not many. Woodcock.--Autumn: Sumburgh Head, Pentland Skerries, and
Isle of May. Earliest at Isle of May, Sept. 22nd; latest, beginning of
December. Rush Oct. 20th, and for some days previous; also arrival same
day of many Redwings (see Turdidæ). Snipe.--Autumn: Pentland Skerries
and Isle of May. Earliest Aug. 31st, at Isle of May, one rose off
island and flew away S.; latest Dec. 21st, at Isle of May, one seen.
Rush scarcely appreciable, but appeared also on Sept. 22nd, at Isle
of May. Records mostly of single birds; these two species exceedingly
scarce this autumn; severe winter of 1880-81 killed many, and severe
spring interfered with breeding. "Sandpipers."--Autumn: Pentland
Skerries and Isle of May. Earliest Sept. 22nd, at Isle of May, a number
(see under Turdidæ); latest Dec. 17th, also at Isle of May, large
numbers. Rushes on these dates at Isle of May. Stragglers: species
recognised and named: Dunlins, Redshanks (probably), Common Sandpiper.

Laridæ.--Terns. Spring: Arrived at Whalsey Skerries, Pentland
Skerries, and Cromarty (Lesser Tern). Earliest May 28th, at Whalsey
Skerries; and at Pentland Skerries, "arrived after hatching!" May
12th, and remained till August; belongs to an autumn movement (?);
also at Cromarty, arrived on June 15th, left Aug. 20th. Terns appear
irregular in hatching and dates of leaving various stations; but most
left all stations in August, and recorded at Isle of May, passing S.
Sept. 12th, 22nd, and 28th. Kittiwakes arrived in spring, at Isle of
May, March 12th; only other record, in autumn, Sept. 22nd, at Isle
of May (see Turdidæ); remained all August there, left end of month.
Other species noted--Great Black-backed Gulls, flying S., Aug. 13th;
large white Gulls, wheeling round Isle of May, Aug. 25th; Skuas (well
described), Sept. 15th; and Oct. 19th and 29th, at Pentland Skerries,
where they are "very rare." Note:--Skuas, Pomatorhine Skuas frequented
the Hebrides most of the summer; I (J. A. H. B.) saw several west of
Lewes, and one near Island of Rum in end of June. Iceland Gull.--A
flight in December. Earliest Dec. 1st, at Sumburgh Head; latest 28th,
at same place; and on 25th, same place, two, accompanying Swans. Storm
Petrels.--At Whalsey Skerries two records, March 29th and June 22nd,
in foggy weather, flying about lights. Autumn: Only one record of
Fork-tailed Petrel at Isle of May, Aug. 15th, which struck, and was
killed and sent to me, of which I now have the skin. Two pairs Common
Petrel bred at Auskerry.

Alcidæ.--Razorbills. Spring: Whalsey Skerries and Isle of May, along
with Guillemots. First arrivals at Isle of May, Feb. 25th. "Invariably
arrive at Isle of May, remain a day or two, and leave again." Second
visit March 16th, at Isle of May; arrived on third visit to breed,
April 15th, but at Whalsey Skerries not till 30th. N.B. Dates of
arrival, and of preliminary visits from all rock bird stations in
Scotland, much desired by committee. Autumn: All left Sumburgh Head
on Aug. 6th; all left Whalsey Skerries on Aug. 15th. Unusually large
rush, flying S., passed Pentland Skerries on Nov. 12th; at this
station they pass almost daily, but this is date of general stampede.
Hundreds swimming round Isle of May on Dec. 15th, the latest noted
record here this year; and Mr. Agnew considers their numbers at this
late date quite unusual. Besides the 75 identified species, or thereby,
I have innumerable records of species which cannot be recognised by
description; and especially numerous are the records from Isle of
May, Mr. Agnew being very desirous of learning more about them. He
sent me numerous birds for identification; amongst those not sent or
recognised, two birds, "never before seen," resemble a Cuckoo in every
respect, but smaller; others, called "Redtails" (? Redstarts), came in
a flock on June 3rd, and stayed till July 2nd. A great many entries
are simply "small birds" from Aug. 16th and 17th, and Sept. 14th to
30th. On Oct. 25th "a few more pretty birds, with red breasts, forked
tails, and two black stripes on head." On Oct. 27th, one "pure white
down belly and round back, black spot a little above tail, wings on top
side a dun black, head and neck same, red legs, bill like a Starling,
size of a Plover." Again on Nov. 2nd, two, "the general colour that of
a Lark, same size, three dark or black stripes down back, and one white
feather each side of tail." It is worthy of remark that these unknown
species struck most during easterly breezes (J. A. H. B.) I trust
another season to be better prepared to have some of these identified.
I have only mentioned them here to draw attention to the fact that
probably rare things, like the Blue-throated Warbler (C Wolfi), may
turn up. I might easily offer suggestions as to what these unnamed are,
but I do not think any practical use would come by doing so.


General Remarks.

I have embodied all remarks on both coasts at the end of the Report on
the West Coast of Scotland, to which I refer my readers.




EAST COAST OF ENGLAND.


Printed forms of enquiry and letters of instruction were sent to
thirty-four lighthouses and light-vessels on the east coast of England,
and two stations on the Channel Islands, thirty-six altogether against
thirty-seven in 1880, and returns have been received from twenty-five.

Independent reports have also been sent in from Heligoland, Seaton
Carew and Redcar, Flamborough, Spurn, North-east Lincolnshire, and
Northrepps, making a total of thirty-two reporting stations against
thirty-eight in 1880.

My best thanks are due to H. Gätke, T. H. Nelson, C. Donald Thompson,
Matthew Bailey, William Eagle Clarke, H. Bendelack Hewetson, M.D., J.
H. Gurney, jun., Colonel Russell, and G. P. Hope, for many interesting
notes sent in, and for general kind co-operation and assistance in the
enquiry.

Special thanks is also given to the various observers on the
lighthouses and light-vessels whose names are given in the Report; and
it is to be regretted that no less than eleven stations, from causes
unknown to the writer, have failed to make returns, more especially as
some of these were amongst the best returning stations in 1880. It is
much to be hoped that this year the returns will be more numerous and
complete.

The east coast stations are as follows, those making returns being
marked with a star (*):--

† For nature of light, and position and description of station, see
previous Reports.

   Longstone L.H.†
  *Inner Farne L.H.               Thomas H. Cutting.
  *Coquet Island L.H.             William Evans.
  *No. 5 Buoy, Teesmouth L.V.     Henry Harbord.
  *Whitby, High, L.H.             John Odgers.
  *Flamborough Head L.H.          Charles Hood.
  *Spurn Point L.H.               James B. Smith.
   Spurn (Newsand) L.V.
  *Outer Dowsing L.V.             Samuel Sheet.
  *Inner Dowsing L.V.             William King.
  *Dudgeon L.V.                   Thomas Dale.
  *Lynn Well L.V.                 George Rees.
  *Hunstanton L.H.                William Westmoreland.
  *Cromer L.H.                    Richard Comben.
  *Leman and Ower L.V.            Charles Perfrement.
  *Hasbrough L.V.                 John Nicholas.
   Hasbrough L.H.
   Newarp L.V.
   Winterton L.H.
  *Cockle L.V.                    Samuel Pender.
   Orfordness L.H.
   *Corton L.V.                   W. T. Cotton.
  *Shipwash L.V.                  Thomas Randule.
  *Galloper L.V.                  John Quested.
   Kentish Knock L.V.
  *Swin Middle L.V.               Thomas Barrett.
  *Tongue L.V.                    Robert Crancher.
  *Nore L.V.                      George Ladd.
   North Foreland L.H.
   Goodwin L.V.
  *Gull L.V.                     { Francis Harvey and
                                { Anthony Collins.
  *Southsand Head L.V.          { J. C. Leggett and
                                { J. G. Fornman.
  *Eastside L.V.                  Thomas Rees.
   South Foreland L.H.
   Casquets (Alderney) L.H.
  *Hanois (Guernsey) L.H.         Charles Williams.


SEPARATE REPORT ON EACH SPECIES.

Song Thrush, _Turdus musicus_, Linn.--Spring migration observed at
one station only on the east coast. May 2nd, some seen at Inner Farne
L.H., with Blackbirds and one King Ouzel, E.N.E., mist and rain. In the
autumn occurred at the majority of stations from Inner Farne L.H. to
Hanois L.H., off Guernsey: earliest date Nov. 2nd, at Flamborough L.H.,
several round lanterns during night with Larks and Starlings; latest,
Nov. 30th, Heligoland, passing all day with Fieldfares. Greatest number
occurred between Oct. 18th and 23rd at Inner Farne L.H., Flamborough
Head L.H., and Dudgeon L.V., wind E.S.E., S. Migration extended over
about two months, line of flight generally E. to W.

Redwing, _Tardus iliacus_, Linn.--First at Cromer L.H. on August 1st,
3 a.m., five killed; last at Inner Farne, Nov. 1st, all day with
Thrushes. Great rush, Oct. 18th to 22nd. Migration extending over three
months.

Fieldfare, _Turdus pilaris_, Linn.--First, Cromer L.H., Sept. 14th, 1
p.m., fog and rain, two killed; last, Heligoland, Nov. 30th, great many
passing; also same date at Inner Farne L.H., two flocks to W.N.W. Oct.
19th, at Teesmouth, before daybreak, several were heard "chuckling"
high overhead by fishermen going out to sea, flying S.W. to W., wind
E., strong rain. The Fieldfare has been most exceptionally scarce on
the English coast during the autumn and winter.

White's Thrush, _Turdus varius_, Pall.--One early in January, 1882, at
Waplington Manor, near Pocklington, Yorkshire. (Zool., 1882, p. 74.)

Blackbird, _Turdus merula_, Linn.--Spring migration observed at Cromer
on Jan. 29th (1881), 4 a.m., fog, two at lantern; and also, Feb. 5th,
six at midnight, three killed. At Inner Farne L.H. they were seen in
some numbers at 8 a.m., on May 22nd, with Thrushes. No Blackbirds
crossed Heligoland in the autumn. On English east coast they were noted
at several stations from Inner Farne L.H. on Oct. 2nd to the 28th at
Hanois, several striking there at 10 p.m. A great rush at several
stations from Oct. 21st to 25th inclusive, wind E.S.E., strong. During
the first week in November large numbers were observed in North-east
Lincolnshire, direction of flight E. to W. and S.W., and E.S.E. to N.W.

Ring Ouzel, _Turdus torquatus_, Linn.--Inner Farne L.H., one, May 2nd.
In the autumn, at the same station, Oct. 3rd, one; and at several
stations from Oct. 23rd to 25th, when there was a rush. None are
recorded after this date, except one at Inner Farne on Nov. 30th.
Migrate like the rest of the Turdinæ, both by day and night, and in the
same direction.

Common Wheatear, _Saxicola œnanthe_ (Linn.).--In spring of 1881, first
at Hunstanton L.H., March 25th, several all day, and four days later at
Inner Farne, 9 a.m., N.N.E. (four), snow, several; many, same station,
first week in May. In the autumn, first at 5th Buoy, Tees L.V., on
Aug. 18th, great many, and subsequently, up to end of first week in
September, large numbers at several stations observed passing along
east coast southward. At Spurn, on Sept. 14th, passed in thousands,
and still far from scarce on 17th. From Heligoland Mr. Gätke reports,
under date Sept. 3rd:--"Numbers of small birds at the lighthouse from
3 a.m., at which hour the weather moderated with a change from N.E. to
E. by S.; all day multitudes of _phœnicurus_, _trochilus_, _luctuosa_,
_E. hortulana_, _A. arboreus_ and _pratensis_, _S. œnanthe_. Night,
from 3rd to 4th, great numbers of above caught at lighthouse: among
forty-nine _œnanthe_, but three old; amongst forty-seven _phœnicurus_,
eleven old."--"Mem. _Trochilus_ turned up after midnight; _phœnicurus_
and _œnanthe_, multitudes of young males, early in the night (later
also); but the few old birds appeared later after midnight."--Spring
migration, 1882, March 19th, Spurn, several seen.

Whinchat, _Pratincola rubetra_ (Linn.).--First week in September, many,
with Wheatears in the North-east Lincolnshire marshes.

Stonechat, _Pratincola rubicola_ (Linn.).--Great numbers at Whitby L.H.
on April 3rd. In the autumn, first on Northumberland and Durham coast,
Sept. 8th and 9th, and Spurn, Sept. 15th; last, at Inner Farne on Oct.
26th, E.S.E. (three), two seen.

Redstart, _Ruticilla phœnicurus_ (Linn.).--The migration of the
Redstart seems so inseparably connected with that of the Wheatear
that it is difficult to disconnect the two. On May 1st one killed
at Hunstanton L.H., 11 p.m., S.W., o.m. In the autumn, in August,
September and October, at many stations, the main body passing south
in early part of September with the Wheatears. On the 4th they were
observed in great numbers along the line of sandhills, near the
entrance of the Humber, generally young of the year, only four old
males being seen. At Heligoland, in August and first half of September,
a great many passed, and on 17th immense numbers; on 10th with _M.
luctuosa_. At Teesmouth (Redcar) a considerable flight came in on Sept.
22nd, during night or early morning, wind E., gales and very stormy;
all were young birds, males and females; last observed at Inner Farne
on Oct. 23rd, E.S.E. (seven). The latest immigrations were associated
with Redbreasts.

White-spotted Blue-throat, _Cyanecula leucocyana_ (Brehm.)--On Sept.
3rd an immature bird was shot by Mr. Power at Cley, Norfolk. Another,
also immature, is recorded by Mr. J. A. Harvie Brown, in the Report
from the east coast of Scotland, captured at the Isle of May lighthouse
on the night of Sept. 22nd.

Redbreast, _Erithacus rubecula_ (Linn.).--March 5th, daybreak, at
Whitby L.H., many Redbreasts. The first occurrence in the autumn,
September 5th, at the 5th Buoy, Tees L.V., when one came on board.
At the Leman and Ower L.V. large numbers passed to W. with Wrens on
Sept. 22nd. Same date, and to the 25th, many at the Inner Farne L.H.
Whitby on 20th. Also occurring at several stations through October in
considerable numbers, as far south as the Inner Dowsing L.V. Very large
numbers at Spurn, from October 2nd to 8th; on the 3rd so worn out with
a N.E. gale they might be caught by hand. Some crossed Heligoland on
Oct. 24th. Migration extending over two months.

Whitethroat, _Sylvia rufa_ (Bodd.); Lesser Whitethroat, _S. curruca_
(Linn.); Blackcap, _S. atricapilla_ (Linn.); Garden Warbler, _S.
salicaria_ (Linn.).--One common Whitethroat killed, Cromer L.H., Feb.
21st, 1881, N.E. (4), o.m. Spurn, Sept. 3rd, Warblers of all kinds
abounded. Greater and Lesser Whitethroats, Blackcaps, and Garden
Warblers:--At Teesmouth (Redcar), Sept. 22nd, several, E. gale and
rain. Spurn, one male Blackcap on Oct. 8th. Some Whitethroats passed
Heligoland on Oct. 24th. On the English coast the migration of the
_Sylvianæ_ is carried on during August and September; the main body
passing south with great regularity in the first week in the latter
month.

Goldcrested Wren, _Regulus cristatus_, Koch.--Spring migration on March
19th. Cromer L.H., two killed against lanterns, 3 a.m., W. (four),
b.c.m.; and at Hunstanton, April 14th, 2 a.m., one, with a Flycatcher,
killed. In the autumn Goldcrests first observed at Hanois L.H.,
Sept. 1st, midnight, o.m., along with Whitethroats; several killed.
Subsequently throughout October, both by day and night, at stations
from the Inner Farne L.H. to the Tongue L.V., off the Thames. A great
many Goldcrests crossed Heligoland from Oct. 18th to 24th, E., clear,
fine, but fresh. The arrival of Goldcrests at Spurn as early as Sept.
5th, associated as usual with Woodcocks and Short-eared Owls (three
widely separated species, which are, however, inseparably connected
in their migrations), is remarkable, as being one month in advance of
their average time. On the Suffolk coast, in great numbers from Oct.
12th to 17th.

Willow Wren, _Phylloscopus trochilus_ (Linn.).--At Spurn, last week
in August, immense numbers of Willow Wrens passed on migration along
sandhills.

Long-tailed Titmouse, _Acredula caudata_ (Linn.).--Heligoland, Oct.
22nd, S.E. gale, some; _Parus ater_, Linn., a few; _Parus borealis_, De
Selys, Nov. 10th, one seen, but not obtained.

Great Titmouse, _Parus major_, Linn.--Oct. 7th to 17th, many in N.E.
Lincolnshire.

Blue Titmouse, Parus cæruleus, Linn.--Inner Farne L.H., Oct. 20th,
E.S.E. (five), many.

Common Creeper, _Certhia familiaris_, Linn.--Inner Farne, Oct. 5th,
squally, one shot; was running rapidly up a stone wall near lighthouse
at time.

Common Wren, _Troglodytes parvulus_, Koch.--At Cromer, night, April
9th, one killed against lantern. First at Flamborough in the autumn;
July 17th, several round lantern all night, o.m.; the next notice is
Aug. 12th. Shipwash L.V., from noon to 2 p.m., large numbers with
Redbreasts to W.N.W. Aug, 21st, again at Flamborough, many round
lantern all night. Spurn L.H., 10 p.m., three killed, in company with
other small birds. Flamborough, Sept. 7th, again during the night, many
with Wheatears around lantern. At the Leman and Ower L.V., Sept. 22nd,
large numbers during day, with Redbreasts, to W. Last occurrence was
Inner Farne L.H., Oct. 4th, many. Migration extending over eighty days.

Wagtails, _Motacillidæ_.--March 8th, at Whitby, many Pied Wagtails, 9
a.m. Oct. 20th, Hanois L.H., 9 p.m., E.S.E. (six), o.m., many, with
Thrushes, striking glass.

Meadow Pipit, _Anthus pratensis_ (Linn.).--April 15th, at the Dudgeon
L.V., one, with a common Sparrow, came on board, leaving again for
W. In September large flocks continued to arrive at intervals in
North-east Lincolnshire, and pass on; and again on the 13th, at Spurn,
there was an extraordinary migration going on all day from N. to S.

Tawny Pipit, _Anthus campestris_ (Linn.).--Considerable numbers at
Heligoland in September, much more than have been seen for years.

Richard's Pipit, _Anthus richardi_, Vieill.--Up to Oct. 18th, at
Heligoland, several seen, and about half a score of young birds shot;
Oct. 24th, two; 26th, one. E., fresh, cold.

Great Grey Shrike, _Lanius excubitor_, Linn.--Several, Spurn, in
October; one seen by me there, Oct. 24th, and another with a Redbreast
in its beak. One occurrence, first week in same month, on the
Lincolnshire coast. Six together were noticed by Miss M. M. Smith,
near the lighthouse, at Spurn, on Feb. 17th, probably on the spring
migration to the Continent.

Waxwing, _Ampelis garrulus_, Linn.--Small flock on Westwood Common,
near Beverley, on Nov. 3rd. Several at Heligoland, from Dec. 12th to
end of month.

Flycatcher, _Muscicapa ?_--Dudgeon L.V., April 12th, twenty-five
Flycatchers to W., wind S. Hunstanton, April 29th, seven or eight about
lanterns during night; and same station. May 6th, several at night,
wind S., stormy. At the Swin Middle L.V., Aug. 20th to 21st, 9 a.m.
to noon, several to W. At Spurn, on Sept. 4th, two or three females,
or young of _M. atricapilla_, Linn., Pied Flycatcher, and others up
to 10th. Through August and to Sept. 17th immense numbers of _M.
atricapilla_ and Redstarts crossed Heligoland.

Swallow, _Hirundo rustica_, Linn.--In the spring, first at No. 5 Buoy,
Tees L.V., on April 23rd, going S.E. to N.W.; and after this at several
stations up to May 27th, the most southerly the Leman and Ower L.V.,
forty-eight miles N.E., Cromer; general line of flight E. to W., or
S.E. to N.W. In the autumn Swallows were observed goings south, first,
at Inner Farne L.H., on July 15th; the main body passed south, as
noticed at Teesmouth L.V. and Whitby, in immense numbers between Aug.
28th and Sept. 8th. Stragglers seen at Spurn up to Oct. 29th. Were
seen almost daily near Brighton during the first fortnight in November
moving eastward towards Newhaven, from near which place, at Seaford
Head, they cross to the Continent. At the Gull L.V. (Godwin Sands), on
July 29th, 5 to 7 a.m., continuous flocks were observed to N.W., and
subsequently up to Sept. 26th at intervals, all passing westward.

Martin, _Chelidon urbica_ (Linn.)--First, Whitby, May 10th, passing N.
On August 18th, Tees L.V., vast numbers to S. At Hampton Court Palace
Gardens stragglers noticed as late as Nov. 27th.

Goldfinch, _Carduelis elegans_, Steph.--On Oct. 19th, Hanois L.H., 10
a.m., some flocks; blue sky and cloudy. A few at Spurn, Oct. 27th.
Mouth of Deben (Suffolk), Oct. 10th, very great numbers.

Siskin, _Chrysomitris spinus_ (Linn.).--First at Spurn, Oct. 3rd,
subsequently during the month very numerous; flocks up to twenty; more
generally two or three together clinging to tops of ragwort and _Aster
Tripolium_; a few old males, the bulk females and young of the year.
They crossed Heligoland in considerable numbers: first on Oct. 18th;
last, Nov. 30th.

Greenfinch, _Ligurinus chloris_ (Linn.).--On Sept. 12th, 10 a.m.,
N.N.W. (7), o.m., at Hunstanton L.H., large flocks came in. At Spurn,
Oct. 25, 26th and 27th, small flocks, female and immature. Heligoland,
Oct. 18th, some. Immense numbers congregated in the marsh district
of North-east Lincolnshire, late in October and early in November;
females and young of the year, old males about one in a thousand. The
aggregated flocks, numbering many thousands, frequenting the stubble
fields for some weeks, where they, found an inexhaustible supply of
food in the corn threshed out by the great gale in harvest time, on
Aug. 22nd.

Sparrow, _Passer domesticus_ (Linn.).--At the Outer Dowsing L.V.,
fifty-three miles S.S.E. of Spurn, on April 15th, ten common Sparrows
on board, travelling from S.E. to W. In the autumn occurred at several
stations from the East Godwin L.V., on Sept. 9th and 10th, to Corton
L.V., Dec. 19th, none occurring at stations north of the Outer Dowsing;
line of flight E. to W., or S.E. to N.W. Sometimes remaining all day on
board the light-vessels, or spending the night there.

Tree Sparrow, _Passer montanus_ (Linn.).--None north of Spurn, but
south of this at several stations, as far as the Godwin L.V.'s, in
October and early in November. In North-east Lincolnshire large flocks
of both species came in with the Greenfinches, feeding with them in the
same localities.

Chaffinch, _Fringilla cœlebs_, Linn.--First at Spurn, Oct. 9th, females
and young; last at Gull L.V., Nov. 13th, 8 a.m. to noon; continuous to
W. with Linnets. None recorded north of Spurn. Large numbers crossed
Heligoland, Oct. 3 8th or 24th, with Bramblings.

Brambling, _Fringilla montifringilla_, Linn.--Spurn, Oct. 3rd, single
old males; 26th, one or two; 27th, flock of about two hundred males:
examples obtained had their stomachs filled with the husked seed of
the common charlock. Bramblings passed Heligoland on the 24th with _F.
cœlebs_ and _L. cannabina_. E., very strong; and again some Nov. 30th.

Linnet, _Linota cannabina_ (Linn.).--Gull L.V., Nov. 13th, 8 a.m. to
noon, with Chaffinches, continuous to W.

Mealy Redpole, _Linota linaria_ (Linn.).--Spurn, considerable flight
night of Oct. 24th; subsequently observed in small flocks, twenty to
thirty, more generally three or four together, on stalks of ragwort
or _Aster Tripolium_; a few old males, very light coloured and mealy
looking, having the breast and rump washed with crimson-rose, which
colour some kept in captivity retained throughout the winter. Out of
twenty-four obtained during the last week in October twenty-two were
males, either old or young. Examples shot, from the same flock showed
great disparity both in the length and depth of the bill, indicating
probably an immigration from widely separated districts in Scandinavia.
These Redpoles were feeding on seeds of _Scirpus maritimus_ and _Daucus
Carota_, rejecting the husks. Very large numbers crossed Heligoland in
October, and again on Nov. 30th, and almost daily in December to 20th.
At the Inner Farne L.H., on Oct. 6th, many were noticed.

Lesser Redpole, _Linota rufescens_ (Vieill.)--Oct. 26th, three at
Inner Farne L.H.; and under date of Oct. 24th, Redcar, Mr. T. H.
Nelson writes, five came and alighted in front of my window, evidently
very tired; they came from seaward, 10 a.m.; two or three were in the
garden, and I saw several on the South Gore; E.S.E., snow and rain.
Oct. 25th a large flock in an adjoining field. As the range of _L.
rufescens_ is confined to the British Isles these occurrences are
probably referable to a closely-allied species, the _Linota exilipes_
of Coues, the Common European Redpole, which, so far, has not been
recognised as occurring in Great Britain.

Twite, _Linota flavirostris_ (Linn.)--Spurn, Oct. 25th to 27th,
numerous; examples obtained had the rump rosy pink.

Common Bunting, _Emberiza miliaria_, Linn.--Spurn, Oct. 25th to 27th,
large arrival.

Yellow Bunting, _Emberiza citrinella_, Linn.--Whitby L.H., March 8th,
many, 9 a.m. Same station, Oct. 17th, great numbers at same hour. At
Teesmouth (Redcar) some on South Gare on morning of Oct. 25th, with
other immigrants.

Rustic Bunting, _E. rustica_, Pall.--Spurn, Sept. 17th, one, presumed
to be a female, shot on the beach near Easington by Mr. Townend,
schoolmaster. On the same date a fine young bird was obtained on
Heligoland. Light variable easterly winds over North Sea at time.

Little Bunting, _E. pusilla_, Pall.--Sept. 17th, Heligoland, seen but
not obtained. Oct. 19th, one.

Reed Bunting, _E. schœniclus_, Linn.--Teesmouth (Redcar), Sept. 22nd, a
flock in conjunction with Chiffchaffs and Lesser Whitethroats.

Lapland Bunting, _Plectrophanes lapponicus_ (Linn.).--One shot at
Tetney, near Great Grimsby, Dec. 27th, by Mr. G. E. Power.

Snow Bunting, _P. nivalis_ (Linn.).--First at Spurn, Sept. 10th, an old
bird on beach; then, at Inner Farne, on Oct. 6th, four; wind E.N.E.
(3). At Heligoland, on Oct. 26th, 28th, 29th, 30th, 31st, easterly
winds to N.W. and S.W.; 26th, 9 p.m. to midnight, great many passing
overhead; 28th and 29th, rain and hail, both days very great numbers;
30th, great many; 31st, flights of thousands high overhead--one old
to about one hundred young. Enormous and unusual flocks occurred from
the Farne Islands to N.E. Lincolnshire, from Nov. 14th to end of
the year. In the latter district, also near Redcar, many thousands
together remaining for weeks on stubble-land feeding on shaken corn.
At the South Tees L.V. the great rush was on the 23rd, 24th, and 25th
Nov., and again 6th and 10th of Dec, flying S.W. At Inner Farne L.H.,
Dec. 4th, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m., immense numbers to W. and W.N.W.; very
few old birds observed. On Nov. 8th and 9th, at Heligoland, thousands
upon thousands passed night and day along with Shore Larks, _Otocorys
alpestris_. In spring of 1882, March 28th, Spurn, a few; 29th, one on
beach.

Sky Lark, _Alauda arvensis_, Linn.--On the night of July 25th, 1881,
large numbers occurred at the Dudgeon and the Leman and Ower L.V.'s,
round the lanterns, in the former case associated with Starlings and
Snipes; fifty fell on deck, and sixty at Leman and Ower. Again, at
these same light-vessels, on March 6th and 7th, great numbers occurred
during night. In the autumn Sky Larks occurred at all stations from
the Inner Farne to Hanois. Earliest, Sept. 12th, Lynn Well L.V.;
latest, Galloper L.V., July 8th, 1882. Great rush Sept. 20th, and again
Oct. 17th, 18th, 19th, being then continuous all day at many stations
between Flamborough and Nore L.V., less each day to 25th; frequently
associated with Starlings. At the most northerly stations the direction
of flight was south, from Spurn to the English Channel E. to W. or S.E.
to N.W. Many occurred round the lantern of the Galloper L.V. on night
of July 4th and 8th (seventy caught alive on latter night); line of
flight to S.W.

Shore Lark, _Otocorys alpestris_ (Linn.).--Oct. 17th to 26th, great
many almost daily, and Nov. 8th and 9th (see Snow Bunting). The only
occurrence on the English coast is Oct. 26th, Yarmouth, two on North
Denes.

Starling, _Sturnus vulgaris_, Linn.--Spring migration in 1881 observed
at Dudgeon L.V. and Cromer L.H. from Feb. 25th to April 14th. In the
autumn at nearly all our mid and south-east stations from August 30th
to Dec. 11th. Heligoland, great rush Oct. 18th and 19th. On the English
coast, during last fortnight in month, both night and day; often
associated with other migrants. Line of migration to W., S.W., N.W.,
W.N.W. At Teesmouth (Redcar), on Nov. 4th, an immense flock, estimated
to contain a million, "making a noise like thunder and darkening the
air," came from E. at 7 a.m.; S.W. light, rainy to fair. Mr. John
Odgers (Whitby L.H.) writes:--"We have had immense numbers of Starlings
nesting in the cliffs up to this year; none, however, nested in 1881."

Daw, _Corvus monedula_, Linn.--Oct. 25th to Nov. 14th, occasionally
with rooks at east-central stations.

Hooded Crow, _Corvus cornix_, Linn.--In the spring of 1881, at the
Outer Dowsing on March 28th, 11 a.m., about one hundred from W.N.W.
to S.E.; and at the Dudgeon L.V., on April 8th, 7 a.m., about sixty
to east. Twenty were seen at Spurn on June 26th, at 3 p.m., S.S.E.,
clear. In the autumn are recorded at nearly all our stations from the
Inner Farne to the Godwin's. First at Teesmouth, Sept. 23rd, fourteen;
Sept. 30th, Suffolk coast, and for some days after. Last at South Sand
Head L.V. (Godwin), Dec. 12th. The great flight crossed Heligoland
on the 17th and 18th of October, E. clear, fine but fresh. Mr. Gätke
remarks this migration "differed very markedly from usual habits in
passing overhead, E. to W., at least twice as high as usual; further,
by continuing _passing on late in the afternoon_, which accounts for
your arrivals 'during night or early morn,' which, however, I do not
think has been later than soon after nightfall. As a general rule
_C. cornix_, coming here later than 2 p.m., do not proceed on their
migration, but remain on cliffs and island all night." There was a
great arrival also on the English coast on the nights or early morning
of Oct. 18th and 19th, at north, middle and south-east stations. There
was again a considerable flight across Heligoland on Nov. 8th and 9th,
and again Dec. 10th and 11th. Thirteen Carrion Crows were observed at
the Inner Farne L.H. on Oct. 26th, and a large Raven at Whitby L.H., 10
a.m. on Aug. 26th.

Rook, _Corvus frugilegus_, Linn.--In spring of 1881, at Dudgeon L.V.,
March 7th, 10 a.m., flocks to E.S.E. At the Leman and Ower L.V., on
April 12th, 13th, 14th, and 15th, continuous to S.E. In the autumn, at
some mid and south-east stations, first at East Godwin L.V., Sept. 9th,
all day W. to E.; last on Dec. 23rd, Lynn Wells, all day S.E. to N.W.
Great rush Oct. 17th and 18th; also 25th to 27th same month.

Common Swift, _Cypselus apus_ (Linn.).--May 1st, Hunstanton L.H., one;
many on 7th. Were migrating south in large flocks last week in August
and first in September. Seen last Sept. 22nd, Spurn, 7 p.m., o.m.
flocks round lantern.

Nightjar, _Caprimulgus europæus_, Linn.--Spurn, May 25th, one; are
scarce in vernal migration at this station, common in the autumn.
This last year from Sept. 3rd to Oct. 3rd. The few that turned up in
Heligoland, Mr. Gätke says, during all this bad weather (Sept.), "were
minus the conspicuous white patches on primaries and remiges."

Green Woodpecker, _Gecinus viridis_ (Linn.).--Cromer L.H., Sept. 25th,
a bird, answering in every respect to this species, was seen for some
hours near the lighthouse.

Hoopoe, _Upupa epops_, Linn.--Near Durham, Lincolnshire coast, and
Spurn on Sept. 24th, 26th, and 29th. One, Nov. 10th, seen perched on
telegraph wire near Whittlesea Station, Great Northern Railway.

Cuckoo, _Cuculus canorus_, Linn.--Cromer L.H., April 29th, noon,
several seen. Many (young birds) passed Spurn last fortnight in
September.

Barn Owl, _Strix flammea_, Linn.--Oct. 16th, one captured at sea on
board one of the Grimsby fishing-smacks and brought in. See Zool. 1882,
p. 86.

Long-eared Owl, _Asio otus_ (Linn.).--Spurn, two, last week in August.
Redcar, one, Oct. 2nd, E.

Short-eared Owl, _Asio accipitrinus_ (Pall).--April 12th and 15th, one
each day, past Dudgeon L.V. to W.S.W. One, Spurn, May 25th. In the
autumn, at several stations from Teesmouth (Redcar) to Hasborough L.V.,
from Sept. 5th to Nov. 9th, line of flight from E. to W. or S.E. to
N.W. At Redcar numerous occurrences between Sept. 15th and Oct. 26th,
with E. and N.E. winds.

Snowy Owl, _Nyctea scandiaca_ (Linn.).--Mr. T. H. Nelson writes:--"A
great White Owl flew up the sands in front of Redcar, 10.30 a.m., Oct.
25th, past a group of fishermen and over the town, going S.W., wind
E.N.E. strong."

Tengmalm's Owl, _Nyctala tengmalmi_, (Gmel.).--Cromer L.H., Oct. 30th,
2 a.m., one caught against lantern; Nov. 18th, one near Dartford, Kent.
('Field,' Nov. 26th).

Common Buzzard, _Buteo vulgaris_, Leach.--Heligoland, Sept. 22nd,
an immense flight, thousands passing on, and as many resting on the
cliffs, E. storm (No. 9); 23rd and 24th, still great many. Numerous
from Sept. 24th to Oct. 18th between the Farne Islands and coast of
Norfolk, the bulk coming in during the last week in September. On Sept.
27th, coast of Suffolk, and passing at a great height to the south.

Sparrowhawk, _Accipiter nisus_ (Linn.).--Heligoland, Sept. 22nd,
Sparrowhawks and Kites. At the Coquet L.H., Outer Dowsing, Corton and
Cockle L.V.'s, the same day. A very considerable arrival was also noted
at Northrepps, near Cromer, between the 13th and 23rd of August.

Kite, _Milvus ictinus_, Savigny.--Yarmouth, one last week in September.

Honey Buzzard, _Pernis apivorus_ (Linn.).--Norfolk, Oct. 6th, nineteen
Honey Buzzards, Mr. Gurney writes, up to this date.

Peregrine Falcon, _Falco peregrinus_, Tunstall.--Heligoland, Sept.
22nd, Peregrines, Hobbies, and Kestrels many. Spurn, some of each in
October.

Common Kestrel, _Falco tinnunculus_, Linn.--Many observed in coast
districts of N.E. Lincolnshire in July, August, and September.

Osprey, _Pandion haliaëtus_ (Linn.).--There were no less than ten
occurrences of this noble bird between the Tyne and Thames from the
last week in September through October, namely, Durham, one; Yorkshire,
one; Lincolnshire, three; Norfolk, two; Suffolk, one; and near London,
two; several others being recorded from inland places in various parts
of the kingdom. Of the Lincolnshire examples, two were birds of the
year; the other, shot Oct. 15th near some artificial trout ponds at
Laceby, near Grimsby, was a magnificent adult female. One adult was
obtained near Chester on Nov. 17th. It is very clearly shown in the
returns that the great movement southward of the raptorial birds began
on or about Sept. 21st, and was continued during the next fortnight.

Cormorant, _Phalacrocorax carbo_ (Linn.).--Coquet L.H., Nov. 26th, 2
p.m., twelve to north.

Gannet, _Sula bassana_ (Linn.).--May 2nd and 3rd, Inner Farne L.H.,
large flocks all day to N. During September large numbers passed
Flamborough to the south. On Dec. 2nd, at the Gull L.V., twenty were
seen going west into the Channel; and on the 4th ten to the south. A
great many were observed by fishermen at sea during the latter half of
September and early part of October, fishing and "striking" near the
boats amongst the herring shoals.

Heron, _Ardea cinerea_, Linn.--August 31st, Inner Farne L.H., 6 p.m.,
N.N.E., two coming in from sea. At Teesmouth (Redcar) on August 3rd,
nine at 11 a.m. to W., moderate west wind; others in September.

Little Bittern, _Ardea minuta_ (Linn.).--One, a male, Sept. 23rd, was
shot near Goole, Yorkshire.

Glossy Ibis, _Plegadis falcinellus_ (Linn.).--Four occurrences in
September, namely, one killed near Lynn, and another seen; one
at Skegness, Lincolnshire, Sept. 9th, and another in Hampshire,
Dogmerfield, Sept. 15th. One also was shot in Hertfordshire, Oct. 10th
('Field,' Nov. 26th), and another on 27th of the same month at Skegness.

Wild Goose, _Anser ?_--At Flamborough, on July 8th, 7.30 p.m., about
one hundred Grey Geese to N. At the South Sand Head L.V., Aug. 23rd, 6
to 8 a.m., continuous flocks to S.W., and again on Sept. 23rd, 10 a.m.
to 2 p.m., continuous to S. Grey Geese were also noted in considerable
numbers at several stations from the Tees to the South Foreland L.V.,
from the beginning of September to the 8th of December, flying in
various directions.

Brent Goose, _Bernicla brenta_ (Pall.).--In March, 1881, many were
observed off the 5 Buoy Tees L.V. At Corton L.V., on June 14th, fifty
from W. to N.E., "passed close to vessel; am quite certain they were
black geese." At the South Sand Head, on Sept. 5th, 6 to 8 a.m., flocks
continuous to W. At Coquet L.H., Oct. 15th, one Egyptian Goose, 3 p.m.,
to N.

Swan, _Cygnus ?_--At Heligoland, on Oct. 23rd, S.E. blowing hard and
very cold, Swans with Geese and Ducks passing. On Lynn Wells L.V., on
Dec. 19th, two at noon, E.N.E., to S.W.; and on 21st, at Inner Dowsing
L.V., 3 p.m., fifteen flying low from E. to W.

Sheldrake, _Tadorna cornuta_ (Gmel.).--At 5 Buoy Tees L.V., Nov. 20th,
twenty off light; and on 29th, forty.

Mallard, _Anas boschas_, Linn.--5 Buoy Tees L.V., March 26th, 1881,
Mallard with Wigeon and two Teal. In Sept. and Oct., large flocks at
several stations. At the Teesmouth (Redcar), on Aug. 17th, "a rush"
of Ducks occurred between 6 a.m. and noon; also on previous night,
continuous to N.W., with Whimbrel and Curlew; the Ducks were in flocks
of about 100 together. Again on Oct. 14th, the great storm from N.W.,
continuous flocks of Ducks passed from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m., going W. At
the Swin Middle L.V., Aug. 22nd to 27th inclusive. Ducks all day to W.;
and again both Ducks and Wild Geese from Sept. 1st to 12th, in large
numbers each day, and all day to N.W.

Blue-winged Teal, _Querquedula discors_, Steph.--One, a young bird,
shot on Sept. 3rd near Redcar by Mr. W. Chilton.

Wigeon, _Mareca penelope_ (Linn.).--Large flocks off Teesmouth in
November and December.

Scaup, _Fuligula marila_ (Linn.).--5 Buoy Tees L.V., Jan. 23rd, 1881,
"Bell Wigeon" [Scaup], great number to W.N.W.

Long-tailed Duck, _Harelda glacialis_, (Linn.).--Inner Farne L.H., Oct.
20th and 22nd, several off island.

Eider Duck, _Somateria mollisima_ (Linn.).--On Sept. 24th, at Coquet
Island L.V., twenty Eider Drakes and one female off island; and at
Inner Farne L.V., in Oct., hundreds, both males and females, swimming
under lee of islands. The King Eider, _S. spectabilis_ (Linn.),
was again seen during the latter part of April, and remained in
neighbourhood for two months; last seen on June 19th.

Common Scoter, _Œdemia nigra_ (Linn.).--At Coquet L.H., 3rd, 9th,
and 17th, all day to N. Corton L.V., Dec. 7th, 12th, and 13th, great
numbers E. to W. during greater part of day. Large numbers seen at
several stations off the coast in November.

Goosander, _Mergus merganser_, Linn.--On Oct. 22nd, Teesmouth (Redcar),
stormy E.S.E. gale, twelve were seen flying over East Scar, nine going
W. and three E.

Red-breasted Merganser, _Mergus serrator_, Linn.--During November and
December several seen off the Farne Islands and Teesmouth.

Ring Dove, _Columba palumbus_, Linn.--One at Spurn L.H., against
lantern, on Sept. 15th, 10 p.m. Immense flocks came into N.E.
Lincolnshire in November. At Lynn Wells L.V., on Oct. 22nd, large
flocks, 10 a.m., S.E. to N.W.; and at Caistor Denes, Yarmouth, on Nov.
26th, very large flocks; they are reported, on 28th, from Beccles
(Norfolk) in such numbers as "to make the sky quite dark."

Turtle Dove, _Turtur communis_, Selby.--One at Great Cotes, Sept. 15th,
near rifle-butts on Humber Bank.

Water Rail, _Rallus aquaticus_, Linn.--On Oct. 3rd, Inner Farne L.H.;
and another at Spurn, caught alive in yard of lighthouse on morning of
Oct. 27th.

Landrail, _Crex pratensis_, Bechst.--At Great Cotes, near Grimsby,
Sept. 1st, N., half-a-gale; and at Heligoland, on 9th, Mr. Gätke
writes, "very reddest I have ever had." At Yarmouth, Oct. 5th.

Spotted Crake, _Porzana maruetta_ (Leach).--Heligoland, Sept., one
young bird.

Golden Plover, _Charadrius pluvialis_, Linn.--First week in Sept.,
small flights in N.E. Lincolnshire. On the 6th, Mr. Wm. Eagle Clarke,
writing from Spurn, says, "a long waved line extending at least three
or four miles passed over, extending far over the Humber towards
Lincolnshire coast, 5.15 p.m., wind changing from N. to S., direction
of flight N." At the Farne Islands, during the month, hundreds of
Golden Plovers and Lapwings coming off to the islands in morning, and
leaving for the land at night. At the same station, Nov. 5th, great
numbers to W.S.W.

Grey Plover, _Squatarola helvetica_ (Linn.).--Humber foreshore, June
1st, one old male in summer plumage, and five less advanced; another,
in the same flock, in winter plumage. At Spurn, on June 13th, 4 p.m.,
N.E., clear, Grey Plovers were seen passing S. to N. In the autumn, in
the first week in August, three old birds in breeding plumage on Humber
muds; also several old black-breasted birds seen at Spurn on 24th. The
young of the year arrived in large numbers last of August and first
week of September. Seven shot near Spurn, on Sept. 12th, were two males
and four females, and one lost; all were in fine summer plumage; were
very numerous on Humber flats during September and October; with the
above exceptions, birds of the year or old having completed the autumn
moult.

Kentish Plover, _Ægialitis cantiana_ (Lath.).--One, an immature
example, was shot on the shore at Friskney, near Boston, on Oct. 8th;
subsequently came into the hands of Mr. A. S. Hutchinson, of Derby.

Ringed Plover, _Ægialitis hiaticula_ (Linn.).--May 27th, a flock
numbering about twenty of the small race, _Ægialitis intermedius_
(Ménétriés), on Humber muds.

Dotterel, _Eudromias morinellus_ (Linn.).--May 14th to 21st, some
"trips" in N.E. Lincolnshire marshes, also at localities in Holderness;
twenty seen in one flock, thirty in another.

Lapwing, _Vanellus vulgaris_, Bechst.--At the north-eastern stations,
noticeably at Inner Farne L.H., Hunstanton L.H., Inner Dowsing L.V.,
and Lynn Wells L.V., where very large numbers passed from Oct. 6th
to Nov. 12th, general direction S.E. to N.W. At Teesmouth (Redcar),
Nov. 4th, an immense immigration between 8 a.m. and 3 p.m., passing
westward, flocks numbering from 50 up to 500 birds, a flock coming in
from seaward every ten minutes or thereabouts; S.W., light, fine, and
mild.

Turnstone, _Strepsilas interpres_ (Linn.).--May 25th, many both mature
and immature on coasts of N.E. Lincolnshire and Holderness. Teesmouth,
in the autumn, not so plentiful as usual; common in other localities.

Oystercatcher, _Hæmatopus ostralegus_, Linn.--At Teesmouth (Redcar),
Aug. 18th, 6 a.m., three or four hundred, N.N.E., light, dull and
showery. Hunstanton L.H., flocks S.W. at ebb, and E. at flood,
throughout August.

Red-necked Phalarope, _Phalaropus hyperboreus_ (Linn.).--One near
Grimsby, Sept. 26th; one Spurn and one Withernsea, Oct. 9th; two on
Suffolk coast, same month ('Field,' Oct. 29th, 1881).

Grey Phalarope, _Phalaropus fulicarias_, Linn.--Teesmouth (Redcar),
Oct. 15th, two, in adult plumage, only a few grey feathers on back,
N.N.W. gale; one seen near Redcar same day.

Woodcock, _Scolopax rusticula_, Linn.--May 24th, Outer Dowsing
L.V., one, 10.30 a.m., E.S.E. (4), passing from W. by N. to E.S.E.
At numerous stations in the autumn [principally in the north and
mid-east], from Inner Farne L.H. to East Godwin L.V. First at Spurn, on
Sept. 4th; last at Heligoland, Nov. 30th, "a few Woodcocks and Snipe"
(first and only occurrence there in 1881). Greatest flight on English
coast night of Oct. 28th, N.E., snow and sleet. Woodcocks have dropped
in very irregularly throughout the autumn, by two's and three's during
October, and not in those great rushes which usually characterise their
immigration. Migrate generally during the night; frequent exceptions
to this rule. Casualties against the lanterns of lighthouses and
light-vessels from midnight till daybreak.

Double Snipe, _Gallinago major_ (Gmel.).--One, Sept. 15th, was shot
in a clover field about fifteen miles from Redcar. One, Sept. 4th, at
Spurn, killed against the telegraph-wire; another, same locality, 16th;
one, Seaton Carew, Durham, 27th same month.

Common Snipe, _Gallinago cælestis_ (Frenzel).--Some few last week in
July, main body last week of October to first week in November, rapidly
passing on. Nov. 23rd, Gull L.V., 10.30 a.m., about 100 to. W. Spring
migration, 1882, second week in March.

Jack Snipe, _Gallinago gallinula_ (Linn.).--The only occurrences
recorded at Inner Farne L.H., from Sept. 23rd to Nov. 4th. Mouth of
Deben, Suffolk, both this and the former are recorded from Sept.
30th to Oct. 1st, at full moon, with E. wind, in large quantities,
continuing to arrive for some time; remarkable by its entire absence
from its ordinary winter quarters.

Dunlin, _Tringa alpina_, Linn.--Spurn, May 25th, very large flocks,
composed of birds some in summer plumage, others having no appearance
of changing from ordinary winter garb. Enormous flocks were seen at
some north-eastern stations in October. Great number at Teesmouth
(Redcar), from Sept. 15th to Oct. 12th, all going W.N.W., towards the
Tees.

Little Stint, _Tringa minuta_, Leisl.--In small flocks on Humber
foreshores, from Sept. 2nd to as late as Oct. 8th. Fresh arrivals
easily recognisable by their extreme tameness. Comparatively plentiful
on coasts of Holderness, Lincolnshire, and Norfolk during the same
period.

Temminck's Stint, _Tringa Temmincki_, Leisl.--One early in September,
near Yarmouth; a few regularly occur at this season on the east coast,
although rarely obtained, and probably also frequently overlooked.

Pigmy Curlew, _Tringa subarquata_ (Güld.).--First at Spurn, July 21st,
two in summer plumage. Flocks of young, thirty to fifty, numerous
through September and October in the same districts as the Little Stint.

Knot, _Tringa canutus_, Linn.--Spurn, June 7th, 6 p.m., "Plover-Knot"
from N. to S. Some, birds of the previous year, and which do not
acquire the summer dress, remain on the east coast during the summer.
The first arrivals of young Knot occurred during the first week in
August; great rush (young birds) first week in September, the old
coming during the last week, in October. Mr. Winson, the captain of
the Spurn life-boat, picked up a Knot on Nov. 7th, which was killed
by flying against the telegraph-wire; this bird was in faded summer
plumage, the upper parts nearly black, with edgings of buff on the
margins of the feathers.

Ruff and Reeve, _Machetes pugnax_ (Linn.).--On Sept. 3rd, two shot from
a flock of nine on Cowpen Marsh, near Redcar, N.E., stormy. One Ruff
and two Reeves were also obtained at Spurn early in September.

Sanderling, _Calidris arenaria_ (Linn.).--May 25th, some at Spurn,
young of previous year, and in immature plumage. Aug. 1st, flock of
nine; and henceforward in large numbers during August and September,
many remaining on the coast till end of the year, and into 1882. At
Teesmouth (Redcar) they are reported scarcer this season than they have
been for many years.

Common Sandpiper, _Totanus hypoleucus_ (Linn.).--May 14th to 20th,
North-east Lincolnshire, flocks passing along the coast northward,
returning first week in September.

Green Sandpiper, _Totanus ochropus_ (Linn.).--July 30th, returning.

Wood Sandpiper, _Totanus glareola_ (Linn.).--Aug. 6th, one shot near
Redcar; small flock seen.

Common Redshank, _Totanus calidris_ (Linn.).--Scarce near Teesmouth in
the autumn. At Spurn, July 31st, many.

Spotted Redshank, _Totanus fuscus_ (Linn.).--Teesmouth, about Sept.
15th; one, a fully-matured bird, obtained.

Greenshank, _Totanus canescens_ (Gmel.).--Comparatively numerous in
Humber district in September and October, more than have been seen for
many years.

Bar-tailed Godwit, _Limosa lapponica_ (Linn.).--Passed the Tees in
considerable numbers first week in September. Very common in Humber
district in September and October. At Redcar (Teesmouth), between July
4th and 7th, about thirty passed each morning to W. On Sept. 22nd, a
slight "rush"; several large flocks with Knots, both in morning and
afternoon, going W.; E. gale, stormy, with heavy rain.

Whimbrel, _Numenius phæopus_ (Linn.).--At Spurn, May 25th, three seen.
Teesmouth (Redcar), July 4th to 7th, each day a few seen in morning,
S.W., fine. Aug. 17th, continuous flocks with Curlews and Godwits from
6 to 9 a.m., and also the preceding night, W., calm; and at intervals
to Sept. 23rd, all flying W. or N.W. Last occurrence Oct. 22nd. 5 Buoy
Tees L.V., at 11 a.m., twenty to S.W.

Curlew, _Numenius arquata_ (Linn.).--On May 1st and 18th, at Inner
Farne and Flamborough, round lanterns during night. At various
localities in the autumn, from July 17th to end of September. Great
rush, with Whimbrels and Godwits, on Aug. 17th.

Terns, Sterninæ.--At the Farne Islands, in 1881, the Sandwich Terns
returned on May 6th, the Arctic Terns on the 9th; they left again
in a body, both old and young, on Aug. 21st. From Sept. 2nd to 5th,
hundreds of both species revisited and settled upon their breeding
grounds. After this, from Sept. 16th to the end of the month, two to
three hundred Arctic Terns, both old and young, were observed daily
fishing near island (Inner Farne L.H.), leaving again at night. Three
Arctic Terns, two old and one young, were seen fishing off island on
Oct. 27th, and on 29th a single young bird. A flock of about thirty
Common Terns were to be seen in front of Redcar daily up to Oct. 14th,
when the great storm evidently drove them south. Both at Redcar and
Flamborough, throughout September, great numbers of Terns were noticed
passing south. At Spurn, in May, 1881, small parties of Black Terns
were passing north, a few returning southward by the same route in
August. The Lesser Terns returned to their nesting quarters at Spurn
in the third week in May. At Coquet Island L.H., on the night of Aug.
22nd, fog. Terns with Curlews were all night beating about the lantern.
In 1882, March 29th, Spurn, two Terns [sp. ?] seen passing north.

Gulls, Larinæ.--The Herring Gulls returned to their breeding stations
at Whitby on Feb. 14th; they left the cliffs with their young on Aug.
26th. Lesser Black-backed Gulls were observed congregating at their
nesting quarters, on the Farne Islands, on April 13th. At Flamborough,
on July 4th, great numbers of Kittiwakes were passing to the south all
day. Unusual numbers of Herring Gulls and Little Gulls (_L. minutus_,
Pall.) were seen off Flamborough in September. At Spurn, on Oct. 26th,
two Little Gulls were seen; and about the 22nd two immature Sabine's
Gull, _Xema Sabinii_, procured on the Norfolk coast, some Little Gulls
being seen at the same time. At Teesmouth (Redcar), on Sept. 22nd,
continuous flocks of Herring and Lesser Black-backed Gulls, young
birds, passed from daylight to dusk, all going N.W., strong E. gale,
rain. On Oct. 23rd, and for several days previous. Great Black-backed
Gulls had been passing to N.W., forty to one hundred in the course of a
day, E.S.E. winds, all mature birds. It is many years since so large a
number of Great Black-backs had been seen passing. At the Cockle L.V.,
on Nov. 11th, continuous flocks of Gulls were passing westward all day;
and on Dec. 29th, at Lynn Wells L.V., flocks all day from E. to W.

Skuas, Stercorariinæ.--On July 12th, a flock of one hundred (probably
_S. crepidatus_) passed at 8.30 p.m. to N.W., high over Redcar, wind
W. On Sept. 16th a great many Skuas were seen on the fishing grounds,
five to six miles out, Richardson's, Pomatorhine, and Buffon's busily
engaged chasing the Gulls and Terns; and again on Sept. 29th, a great
many Richardson's, Pomatorhine, and a few Buffon's Skuas seen from four
to twelve miles at sea by fishermen similarly employed. On Oct. 14th,
during the gale from N.N.W., great numbers of Pomatorhine came down
from north, passing Redcar and going off inland, mostly flying high.
The same day a large mixed flock of Pomatorhine and Buffon's Skua was
seen near the Breakwater, crouching on the ground to get shelter from
the tempest of wind and rain. Great numbers of Skuas passed Flamborough
in September; on Oct. 4th, four Richardson's Skuas were seen off
Yarmouth; and on Nov. 23rd, at Southsand Head L.V., great numbers
("Bonxie's and chasers") with Gannets.

Petrels, Procellariidæ.--During the gale on Oct. 14th, several Storm
Petrels seen coming past Redcar from the north; they also occurred
from Aug. 10th to Nov. 20th at several stations, not unfrequently
striking the lanterns of lighthouses and light-vessels on clear as
well as on foggy nights. The Fork-tailed Petrel (_P. leucorrhoa_)
occurred at various stations, both on the coast and inland, between
Oct. 24th and Nov. 28th, one at Heligoland, in December, being only the
second obtained during Mr. Gätke's long residence in the island. It is
probable that this, being a west coast species, is driven in the autumn
by heavy gales right across the island on to our east coast--that is,
from N.W. to S.E.; its rarity at Heligoland in the autumn supports this
view of the line taken by stragglers occurring inland, and on our east
coast after heavy N. and S.W. gales. _Puffinus anglorum_ and _P. major_
passed Flamborough, in September, in considerable numbers.

Alcidæ.--At Flamborough, on April 28th, great numbers of Guillemots
arrived during the day; and on the 29th the Puffins returned for the
season. At the Farne Islands a white Guillemot was seen in June and
July. The Guillemots and Puffins left their breeding stations between
Aug. 20th and 28th. At Whitby, on Aug. 17th and 21st, very large flocks
of Guillemots were seen passing north.

Colymbidæ.--From Aug. 13th to Nov. 8th, at intervals, many Great
Northern and Red-throated Divers seen off Redcar. At the Inner Farne
L.H., from Oct. 5th to 17th, both species common; two of the former,
shot Dec. 8th and 10th, off the Inner Farne Island, weighed 12 and
12-1/2 pounds.

Podicipitidæ.--At the Inner Farne L.H., in February, 1881, an unusual
number of Grebes and small Divers were observed.


General Remarks.

The results of the observations taken along the East Coast of England
in the spring and autumn of 1881 have been satisfactory; it is true
that, as already mentioned, the returns sent in have been less than
in the previous year, yet what has been lost in quantity has more than
been made up in the quality of the work. The observers have become
trained by experience, and have learnt not only how to observe, but
what to observe.

As in previous years, the main line of migration has been a broad
stream from E. to W. or from S.E. to N.W. this year, covering the whole
of our east coast in comparatively equal proportions; the occurrences
of migrants coming from northerly directions, or from points anything
north of east, are few and far between, and in these cases are
consequent on birds striking the coast in more northern latitudes and
following it to the south. Thus, north of Flamborough, Larks pass up
the coast from north to south; at Spurn and south of Spurn they come
in directly from the sea. The closeness with which both migrants and
immigrants follow the coast line has also been verified in a remarkable
degree,--an observer taking up his position at a short distance
from the coast would see or know nothing of migration, yet within
half-a-mile or less there might be a constant stream of birds, hour by
hour and day by day passing to the south.

In the spring birds also return on the same lines they travelled in
the autumn, from W. and N.W. to E. and S.E. A reference to the spring
notes in the report on each separate species observed will show this.
Our spring immigrants also arrive from the sea, and are first seen on
or near the coast, gradually moving inland. Migration has been earlier
than in 1880, in many cases birds arriving considerably in advance
of recent years; this has been notably the case with some of the
_Limicolæ_, such as have the widest ranges and where nesting grounds
are circumpolar--that is, confined to lands surrounding the North Pole.
Also in the case of the _Anatidæ_, which arrived fully a month before
their average period.

It may be said the general features of migration, having reference
to lines of flight, time, height of travelling, favourable winds
or otherwise, circumstances of greatest casualties at lanterns of
lighthouses and light-vessels, are the same as set forth in previous
reports; yet in 1881 we find several important variations from the
normal phenomenon, consequent on the directions of the wind and
general character of the season. From the commencement of August to
the end of October the prevailing winds have been from northerly and
easterly directions, blowing more or less directly on to the coast,
and therefore, as also shown in previous reports, unfavourable passage
winds--for it may be laid down as an axiom that, with southerly or
westerly winds, not amounting to gales, normal migration is the
rule, but with winds in the opposite direction, the results are
very opposite; such winds, more especially if strong, weary out the
immigrants and compel them to drop on the first coast they make, often
completely exhausted by the passage. The consequence has been that,
on our east coast, with the prevailing winds, it has been a most
favourable season for the observer; and generally the number of birds
recorded is considerably in excess of any previous records.

The winter of 1881-82 has been remarkable for its high temperature, no
such uniformly mild season having occurred for many years in England.
The same has been the case over the whole of Northern Europe north of
latitude 50° N. As might be expected, so exceptional a season has not
been without its effect upon our immigrants. Fieldfares have crossed
in very limited numbers, and have everywhere been remarkably scarce
in localities along our east coast. Large numbers of birds which
regularly arrive in the autumn, as the Greenfinch, Chaffinch, Tree
Sparrow, Snow Bunting, and others, and which remain for a few days only
and then pass on, have this winter continued for many weeks, and even
months, resorting in immense flocks to the stubble-fields near the
coast, where, with no severe weather to drive them away, they found an
inexhaustible supply of food in the large quantity of grain dashed out
in harvest-time by the great gale from S.W. to W. on August 26th. Snow
Buntings have been considerably in excess of anything known for many
years, the proportion of old birds not more than one in a hundred.

Another consequence of the mildness of the winter is the desultory
fashion in which birds have migrated; there have been less of those
great "rushes," when for days together one species after another
rush helter-skelter on to our coast. Migration has also been greatly
prolonged, and the latest returns received show Rooks, Starlings, and
Larks still crossing the North Sea in February. The last week in August
and first in September Wheatears and Redstarts passed as usual up the
coast from N. to S., the line of migration being confined to the chain
of sandhills. Also during the first week of September, and again about
the 20th, there was an immense migration of the _Sylviinæ_ in the same
direction. Migration appears to have reached its climax on or about
Sept. 22nd, an enormous number of various immigrants coming in from
this time to the end of the month. Not the least remarkable was the
influx of the larger raptorial birds crossing Heligoland on Sept. 22nd
and two following days, and were about the same period seen along the
entire range of our eastern coast. From this date to the end of October
ten Ospreys were procured from localities contiguous to the east coast
of England, between the Tyne and the Thames. Again, the third week
of October there was another large immigration of birds of various
species. On the night of Oct. 24th great numbers of Mealy Redpoles
came in on the Holderness coast; the same flight was also traceable as
far north as the Farne Islands; the Mealy Redpoles appear to have been
accompanied or closely followed by a flight of Siskins. Hooded Crows
came with their usual regularity, almost to a day; this autumn the
great flight crossed Heligoland on the afternoon of Oct. 17th, and on
the 18th. There was a corresponding arrival along the whole of our east
coast on the night of 17th or early morning of 18th, and on the 19th.

Short-eared Owls, Golden Crested Wrens, and Woodcocks arrive with great
punctuality during the first fortnight in October, and are invariably
associated in their migration--that is, coming at the same time; it
is a curious fact that, in the last autumn, all three arrived in
conjunction five weeks in advance of their average period; this perhaps
may have been a local and coast movement from North Britain, and not
across the North Sea.

In August and early in September, Knots, Grey Plovers, Sanderlings,
Curlew Sandpipers, and Little Stints--all circumpolar in their
nesting--had returned in large number, being unusually abundant and
early in their movements up the coast.

The _Anatidæ_ have been remarkably scarce in shore and within our
river estuaries, and it has been an almost blank season for the
wildfowl-shooter; yet we find, in the returns from some light-vessels,
they have occurred in extraordinary numbers out at sea, the weather
having never been sufficiently severe to drive them inland or near the
coast.

With a dry hot summer in Northern Europe migration is always earlier
than in years of rain and low temperature, birds breeding sooner in
the former, and the nestlings, like all other young things, with dry
weather and sunshine, developing more rapidly.

Nothing is more remarkable in the phenomenon of migration than the
punctuality with which certain species return in the autumn, one
species regularly taking precedence of another; also in respect to the
date of the arrival year after year. In the _Limicolæ_ and _Anatidæ_
the date of autumn migration varies--often considerably--from year to
year. In some species, as the Wheatear, Redstart, Fieldfare, Redwing,
Hooded Crow, Goldcrest and Woodcock, and others, we may almost predict
to a day the time of their first appearance.

The period of the migratory flight in the autumn of any particular
genus or species is most probably referable to two causes: the first
one of temperature, affecting the time of nesting; the second is the
period at which the young arrive at maturity, or rather that period
when they throw off paternal control or are thrown off themselves.
When able to act independently and procure food on their own account,
they flock together and migrate in a body. We know that, with rare
exceptions, the young of the year migrate some weeks in advance of
the parent birds; thus we can readily conceive the whole of the large
raptorial birds nesting about the same time over widely extending
districts in Northern Europe; when the many young arrive at a
self-dependent stage there would be a simultaneous movement, ending in
a universal migratory rush. This period of self-dependence is arrived
at much more quickly in some birds than in others, for species like
the Knot, Grey Plover, Godwit, and Sanderling, nesting in very high
latitudes, leave our shores the last in the spring of any of the
migrants, and their young are amongst the first to return in autumn.
The order of migration, more especially in connection with the shore
birds, is the occurrence very early in autumn--July or August--of a few
_old_ birds in summer plumage, either barren or such perhaps as have
been prevented nesting, then the young in large flocks, and some weeks
subsequently old birds.

The season of 1881-82 will long be remembered by east coast
ornithologists for the number of rare visitants which have appeared
from time to time, driven to westward of their ordinary migration
lines by the prevailing winds from N. and N.E. to E. and S.E.,
generally strong and frequently increasing to a severe gale. The fact
of ten Ospreys having been seen or procured has already been mentioned;
there were two occurrences of Tengmalm's Owl; the Rustic Bunting at
Spurn; Lapp Bunting at Tetney, on Lincolnshire coast; White-spotted
Blue-throat at Cley, in Norfolk; Glossy Ibis, five occurrences;
Sabine's Gull, two on Norfolk coast; Kentish Plover, Lincolnshire;
Blue-winged Teal, Teesmouth; and numerous other occurrences of scarcely
secondary interest. These, as well as the rarer occurrences in
Heligoland, have been separately treated in the notes on each species
observed.




WEST COAST OF SCOTLAND.


Schedules, &c., were sent to thirty-eight stations, the same number as
in 1880. We have received filled-in schedules from twenty-six stations,
being same as last year.

Generally the returns are light, and the scarcity of birds is accounted
for by the reporters, and borne out by comparison of statistics, by
the prevalence of westerly gales and winds (see General Remarks). The
schedules show the same careful work as in former years.

The dates upon which the various stations have sent us returns are
shown in the following list of the stations by the positions of the
asterisks preceding the consecutive numbers. Stations added have the
dates preceding the names. As will be seen, the work done will compare
favourably with the East Coast returns, and also with that of previous
seasons.

                        West Coast of Scotland.

Mainland.

  1879, '80, '81.
    *    *     *   81. Cape Wrath, Sutherland    400 ft. D. Sinclair.
    *    *     *   82. Rhu Stoir, W. Cromarty    195  "  W. Wither.


Outer Hebrides.

    *    *     *   83. Butt of Lewis             170  "  { G. Edgar and
                                                         { Alex Thompson.
         *     *   84. Stornoway                  56  "  John Grierson.
    *    *     *   85. Island Glass              130  "  W. Innes.

    *    *     *   86. Monach Island           { 150  " } J. Youngclause.
                                               {  62  " }
         *     *   87. Ushenish                  176  "   Peter Carrie.
                   88. Barra Head                683  "


Mainland, Skye, and Inner Hebrides.

                   89. Bona, Skye                 222  "
         *     *   90. Kyleakin, Rosshire          63  "  D. MacCulloch.
    *    *     *   91. Isle Ornsay, Skye           58  "  J. Loughton.
    *    *         92. Ardnamurchan, Pt. Argyle   180 ft.
    *    *     *  {93. Hynish Signal Tower, Tiree}150  "  W. Crow.
                  {94. Skerryvore, off Tiree     }
    *    *     *   95. Dhuheartach, S.W. of
                         Ross of Mull             145  "  J. Ewing.
    *    *     *   96. Sound of Mull               55  "  W. Maclellan.
                   97. Conan Ferry, Loch Eil       38  "
         *     *   98. Lismore Island, Oban       103  "  Alex. Murray.
    *    *         99. Fladda, Easdale             42  "
    *    *     *  100. Rhuvaal, Islay             147  "  David Spink.
         *     *  101. Mac Arthur's Head, Islay   128  "  W. Maill.
    *    *     *  102. Skervuile, Jura             73  "  John Ewing.
    *    *     *  103. Rhinns of Islay            159  "  Andrew Lyall.
    *    *        104. Lochindaul, Islay           50  "
                  105. Mull of Kintyre            297  "
                  106. Sanda, Kintyre Sound       165  "
                  107. Devaar, Kintyre            120  "
                  108. Pladda, Arran              130  "
               *  109. Lamlash, Arran              46  "  David Waters.
         *     *  110. Turnberry, Ayrshire         96  "  Andrew Nisbet.
    *    *     *  111. Corsewall, Wigtown         112  "  Robert Laidlaw.
    *    *     *  112. Loch Ryan, Wigtown          46  "  Ralph Ewing.
    *    *     *  113. Portpatrick, Wigtown        37  "  James Beggs.
    *    *     *  114. Mull of Galloway, Wigtown  325  "  N. Morrison.
               *  115. Little Ross, Kirkcudbright 175  "  W. A. Mackay.
    *    *     *  116. Point of Ayr, I. of Man    106  "  James Blythe.
         *     *  117. Douglas Head, I. of Man    104  "  A. Irvine Grant.
                  118. Chickens Rock, I. of Man   122  "
         *     *  119. 1880, Bahama Bank, Isle of
                         Man (L.V.)                       Charles Johns.
                  120. 1880, Langness do.

It will be seen upon comparing this last with the previous years of
1879 and 1880 that steady interest in the work is being kept up by our
West Coast reporters.

Turdidæ.--Song Thrush. Spring: Only one record at Stornoway, where a
pair arrived on March 3rd and stayed till 18th.--Autumn: Records at
Kyleakin, Dhuheartach, Lismore, and Bahama L.V. Earliest Oct. 5th,
at Lismore (a flock all night); latest on Dec. 13th, at Lismore also
(mixed with Blackbirds), and a single bird on Jan. 16th at Bahama L.V.
Participated to a small extent in a rush of migrants generally Sept.
21st to 23rd, which appeared on both coasts of Scotland. Indications
of a small rush Oct. 25th to 27th also. Other records scattered
through September, October, November, and December. Blackbird. No
spring records. Autumn: At Monach, Sound of Mull, Lismore, Skervuile,
Turnberry, Mull of Galloway, Little Ross, Douglas Head. Earliest
Sept. 21st, at Mull of Galloway (date of rush also on East Coast
q.v.); latest Dec. 20th, at Turnberry (one struck). Rushes: None
very apparent, but, taking dates of other species, appear to have
mingled with them on September 21st to 23rd at Sound of Mull and Mull
of Galloway (which is also date of general rush on the east coast).
Also faint indications of rushes at Lismore on Oct. 5th, mingled with
Thrushes; and on Dec. 13th to 19th at several stations, as Lismore,
Skervuile, and Turnberry. A good many scattered records also at other
dates and several stations. Exceptionally numerous were Song Thrushes
and Missel Thrushes near Dumfries in October and November, whilst
Redwings and Fieldfares were very seldom seen.

Saxicolinæ.--Wheatear. Spring records only from Butt of Lewis, Rhuvaal,
and Skerryvore; March 9th (a flock), April 1st (at Rhuvaal), and May
6th (at Skerryvore). Autumn: At Skerryvore, Dhuheartach, Lamlash,
Turnberry, Corsewall. Earliest Aug. 14th at Skerryvore (two seen);
latest Oct. 27th, when one seen along with Sparrows and Wrens in
garden. Rushes on Aug. 7th at Skerryvore and Dhuheartach (150 at former
and numbers at latter). Another appears also at Skerryvore on Sept. 7th
during the night. Desultory migration going on between these dates and
till Oct. 27th.

Sylviinæ.--Robin. Only one spring record, April 9th, at Skerryvore.
Autumn: At Rhu Stoir,[1] Kyleakin, Isle Ornsay, Lismore, Skervuile,
Lamlash, Corsewall, Portpatrick, Little Ross. Earliest Aug. 17th, at
Skervuile; next earliest Aug. 21st, when a pair, male and female,
arrived at Little Ross; latest on Dec. 18th, at Kyleakin. Participated
slightly in rush of migrants on Sept. 22nd. No other distinctly
perceptible, but scattered occurrences only recorded. One accompanied
Hedgesparrows and Wrens. One Chat and one Wagtail in Garden of
Lamlash on Oct. 27th. Mr. Service notes the "quick and simultaneous
departure of the _Silviidæ_" towards the end of September in the S.W.
of Scotland. It is curious to find that about the same time that birds
were pouring into Scotland and England others were starting on their
departure. In ordinary seasons the departure of the _Sylviinæ_ is
gradual all through September.

[Footnote 1: Where one bird comes every winter and becomes so tame as
to eat out of the hand. It arrived this year on Nov. 30th.]

Phylloscopinæ.--Gold Crest. No Spring records. Autumn: At Skervuile,
Lamlash. Turnberry, Corsewall, Mull of Galloway, Little Ross, and
Douglas Head; in other words, mostly in southwest of Scotland. Earliest
on Aug. 21st, at Douglas Head, the southernmost on this list (see W.C.
of England stations); latest Oct. 27th, at Corsewall. No great rush,
unless at Mull of Galloway on Oct. 24th, when "numbers flew about
lantern all night," and at Little Ross "for a few nights" between Sept.
12th and 14th or 15th. Desultory at other dates between times. Mostly
observed at lanterns in easterly breezes. Exception at Mull of Galloway
on September 21st in S.W. wind, but after twenty-four hours E.S.E. (see
Isle of May, East Coast of Scotland).

Accentoridæ.--Hedgesparrow. In spring none, but in autumn, at Rhuvaal,
Lamlash, and Point of Ayre, numbers are reported as seen on migration.
Earliest Sept. 5th, when a hundred were seen at Point of Ayre; latest
Oct. 27th, when a number were seen at Lamlash. A still later date is
Jan. 1st, 1882, when one was seen at Rhuvaal. Rushes appear to have
occurred at Point of Ayre on Sept. 5th and 22nd, and a few on Oct. 7th
mingled with Linnets, and at Lamlash on Oct. 27th.

Paridæ.--"Titmice." One record in spring at Mull of Galloway on April
14th in E.S.E. wind. Autumn: Twice recorded only at Corsewall, and at
Little Ross. Earliest July 29th (three), and latest Aug. 2nd, at Little
Ross and Corsewall respectively, being slight indication perhaps of a
rush on these dates.

Troglodytidæ.--Common Wren. No spring records. Autumn: Pretty general
at Skerryvore, Dhuheartach, Lismore, Lamlash, Turnberry, and Little
Ross. Earliest Sept. 16th (one, resting); latest Oct. 27th, at Lamlash.
Rushes on Oct. 5th; a large flock "seen along with Blackbirds and
Thrushes all night," and on Oct. 27th a number at Lamlash along with
Hedgesparrows, a Robin, a Wagtail, and a Wheatear.

Motacillidæ.--Wagtail. In spring, several in March, and two on April
20th at Butt of Lewis. Autumn: At Butt of Lewis, Monach, Kyleakin,
Skerryvore, Dhuheartach, Lamlash, Portpatrick, and Point of Ayre.
Earliest Aug. 16th, at Skerryvore (one seen); latest Oct. 27th,
at Lamlash (see Wren under date and station). Rushes beginning of
September, at Lamlash, and other isolated records; same date at Monach,
&c. Also "a number" on Oct. 7th at Portpatrick.

Anthidæ.--Pipits. At Dhuheartach and Little Ross in autumn. Single
record on Oct. 28th, at Dhuheartach. A rush of "hundreds" at Little
Ross on Sept. 6th. Remained about two hours.

Hirundinidæ.--Swallow. Spring: At Butt of Lewis, Monach, Ushenish,
Kyleakin, Skerryvore, Lismore, Rhuvaal, Skervuile, McArthur's Head,
Rhinns of Islay, Loch Ryan, Little Ross, Point of Ayr, Douglas Head.
Earliest April 24th, at Douglas Head (southernmost station in this
list); latest June 15th, at Skerryvore. Bushes May 5th, at McArthur's
Head (great numbers), and on May 2nd fifty seen at Loch Ryan (possibly
the same birds?--J. A. H. B.) A number seen also at Little Ross on May
2nd. At other dates and stations small parties reported, all during
May, and to June 15th often mixed with Martins. Autumn: At Skervuile,
Lamlash, Turnberry, Loch Ryan, Mull of Galloway, Little Ross, Point
of Ayr, Douglas Head, and Bahama Bank. Earliest at Bahama Bank (L.V.)
July 5th; and next at Loch Ryan Aug. 5th and 6th; latest Oct. 6th,
at Little Ross. An almost continuous rush going on from Aug. 15th at
several stations in S.W. of Scotland, and culminating on Sept. 8th in
great rush at Little Ross, and less so at Loch Ryan and Point of Ayr.
No more records after Oct. 6th. Martin. Generally mixed with the last
on migration both in spring and autumn. Stations at Ushenish and Loch
Ryan in spring, on May 8th and 2nd respectively, and in autumn at Mull
of Galloway on Sept. 28th.

Fringillidæ.--"Linnets," One on May 2nd at Skerryvore. Autumn: At
Rhu Stoir, Monach, Skerryvore, Sound of Mull, Lismore, Point of Ayr.
Earliest Aug. 23rd (a flock) at Lismore; latest Dec. 22nd. Other dates,
Oct. 26th (a flock), at" Lismore. Bushes on Sept. 14th at Little Ross,
and a smaller number on 19th at Sound of Mull. It is difficult to say
if "Linnets" are always real Grey Linnets, or Twites, or Mountain
Linnets, our reporters not distinguishing them. House Sparrows. About
two hundred, "supposed to be of this species," rested all night at
Point of Ayr on Sept. 16th. Bramblings are reported in considerable
numbers from land stations in S.W. of Scotland in beginning of November.

Emberizidæ.--Snow Bunting. Autumn: At Rhu Stoir, Monach; also Kyleakin,
Dhuheartach, and Point of Ayr. Earliest at Rhu Stoir, on Oct. 1st,
"arrive and stay all winter"; latest on Nov. 15th, at Monach (a few).
No rush perceptible. Yellow Bunting. Autumn: One record at Rhu Stoir on
Nov. 30th. Snow Buntings reported abundant by middle of October in S.W.
of Scotland.

Alaudidæ.--Lark. Autumn at Skerryvore, Dhuheartach, Lismore, Rhuvaal,
Skervuile, Turnberry, Little Ross. Earliest on Aug. 23rd (a few with
Linnets) on Lismore; latest on Feb. 16th, 1882, on Skervuile. Rushes:
Sept. 6th, five hundred at Dhuheartach.[2] A straggling migration
during October, sometimes with Thrushes, Blackbirds, as on 26th at
Skervuile, or Starlings, as at same place and at Lismore. Few in
December, January, and February, except "a large flock" on Jan. 16th at
Lismore.

[Footnote 2: Called in schedules "Shore Larks"? In what respect do
"Shore Larks" differ from common Larks? (Query to Mr. James Ewing at
Dhuheartach).]

Sturninæ.--Starling. Two records in spring at Rhu Stoir and Stornoway,
one March 3rd, and the other May 10th. Autumn: At Rhu Stoir, Stornoway,
Ushenish, Kyleakin, Dhuheartach, Lismore, Rhuvaal, Skervuile, Lamlash,
Corsewall, Portpatrick. Earliest Aug. 23rd, at Corsewall; latest on
Jan. 6th, 1882. Rushes inappreciable, but records numerous; if any,
perhaps one on Nov. 10th at Mull of Galloway. Occasionally mixing with
Blackbirds and Larks (as on Oct. 2nd at Lismore); also with Thrushes.

Corvidæ.--Rook. Spring migration: Uncertain records applied to "Crows,"
"All kinds," &c., which notes are not exact enough. Autumn: At Rhu
Stoir, Dhuheartach, Skervuile, and Portpatrick. Earliest Sept. 9th;
latest Nov. 25th, at Skervuile. Flocks seen, but no perceptible rush.

Hooded Crow. Spring: March 4th, at Rhuvaal; Dhuheartach, June 7th.
Autumn: Sept. 12th, at Rhu Stoir (two males and two females). Latest
Dec. 22nd, at Monach. A rush of "Black Crows" (which may be Carrion
or only Rooks) at Lamlash on Oct. 26th and 27th. Raven. One record at
Monach, flying N.W. on Sept. 13th.

Cuculidæ.--Cuckoo. Spring: General at stations. At Loch Ryan, May 3rd
(two heard); Rhinns of Islay, 15th; Skervuile, 4th; McArthur's Head,
23rd; Lismore, 10th; Isle Ornsay, Skye, 8th: Kyleakin, 3rd; Island
Glass, 24th (seen); Stornoway, 9th. In autumn, heard in July often at
Stornoway; left about Aug. 1st at Isle Ornsay.

Strigidæ.--"Owl." Only one autumn record at Kyleakin, when one was seen
flying south on Nov. 4th, wind S.E. clear.

Falconidæ.--"Hawks." At Skerryvore, and Rhuvaal two "large Hawks" on
Feb. 8th (this may belong to latest autumn record). One at Skerryvore
on May 15th. Autumn: At Monach, Skerryvore, Dhuheartach, and Little
Ross.[3] Earliest Sept. 17th ("Hawk"), at Dhuheartach; latest Oct.
29th, at Skerryvore ("Small Brown Hawk"). Rush daily about Sept. 17th
at Dhuheartach, but likely the same birds. "Daily call" at Dhuheartach
about Oct. 5th. No really appreciable rush as on the east coast.

[Footnote 3: The names given are "Hawk," "Game Hawk" at Little Ross,
Aug. 21st; "Merlin" at Monach, Oct. 3rd; "Small Hawk" at Skerryvore,
Aug. 5th; "Small Brown Hawk" at Skerryvore on Oct. 29th. I include them
all here.]

Pelicanidæ.--Gannet. N.B. As we have indications of directions of
flight in most cases, and as records occur in every month, except
October, November, and December, I take spring and autumn together, and
trace out the movements of Gannets with extra care. Stations reported
from: Cape Wrath, Rhu Stoir, Butt of Lewis, Island Glass, Monach,
Skerryvore, Lismore, Rhuvaal, Skervuile, Portpatrick, Mull of Galloway,
Little Ross, Douglas Head. Earliest, Jan. 2nd; flying south (autumn ?),
at Skervuile; one same day, flying north (?); latest, October; leave
Cape Wrath in first week. Last minute record, Sept. 30th, at Lismore,
flying south. The greatest movements or rushes as follows:--The first
week in March they arrive in all weathers, all day, flying west till
midday at Cape Wrath, and return after that till dusk. They are not
seen after first week in October. "Great numbers" on April 12th at Mull
of Galloway. Intermittent in May, except 5th, at Island Glass, when
they were seen all day--about thirty-five in all--wind S.S.E. Between
20th and 30th, at Skervuile, flying in all directions, along with Gulls
and sea-birds. In July flocks flying north, on 26th, at Cape Wrath,
and continued to do so till end of August. Daily average about forty.
Flying past all August; flying north on 13th at Portpatrick all day.
Great rush flying north in thousands on 3rd, 4th, and 5th at Rhu Stoir.
Small parties or flocks flying south on 5th at Skerryvore, and S.W. at
Douglas on Aug. 26th. "Numbers" and "flocks" in September, flying south
at Lismore, Skervuile, and Douglas. N.B.--I have been particular here
in noting records, as I believe interest attaches especially in the
connection of the migration of birds with that of fish.--J. A. H. B.[4]

[Footnote 4: For an essay on which subject I offered a prize at the
late International Fisheries Exhibition in Edinburgh, which was not
competed for.]

Ardeidæ.--Heron. Note.--"Large Black Cranes" are recorded as passing
Rhuvaal on Feb. 12th and 16th, wind N. to S. clear; and mod. S.E.
clear. I cannot learn what these are.--Autumn: At Monach, Rhuvaal,
Douglas. Earliest Aug. 24th, at Rhuvaal; latest Nov. 18th, at Monach,
when eighteen were seen--a rush?

Anatidæ.--Bernicle Goose (sp. ?). Spring: Large flock at Monach April
28th, flying N.W. Ditto ? at Stornoway, Ushenish, Lismore (three struck
at latter station, two killed, one wounded), flying south. Latest May
3rd, at Ushenish (ten flying north). Autumn: Bernicle Goose (only
record here) at Monach, Oct. 20th. "Wild Geese" at Cape Wrath, Rhu
Stoir, Butt of Lewis, Ushenish, Kyleakin, Lamlash, Corsewall. Earliest
Oct. 6th, at Rhu Stoir (seven ad. and one juv.); latest Dec. 4th, at
Kyleakin (four flying east). Rushes inappreciable, equally distributed
in small flocks during October (especially latter half) and November.
Eider Duck. Spring: Butt of Lewis and Rhu Stoir on April 28th and June
23rd respectively. Autumn: At Butt of Lewis, Skerryvore, Dhuheartach.
Earliest Sept. 11th, at Skerryvore; latest Nov. 12th, at Dhuheartach.
Others on Oct. 10th at Butt of Lewis, &c. No rush apparent. Wild Duck.
Spring: Lismore (in pairs), May 20th. Autumn: "Ducks" Nov. 2nd, at
Rhuvaal (three dozen), and at Rhuvaal Dec. 7th (probably the same
lot as on Nov. 2nd, q.v.) Sheldrake. Autumn: Only records at Douglas
Head in August, flying S. on 21st, and flying S. on 27th. Wigeon.
Autumn: At Monach only on Oct. 30th; remained till Nov. 7th, during
which time unusual numbers occurred. Date of Nov. 7th strong S.S.E. to
W.S.W. winds, gales, and heavy rain. Wild Swans. At Skervuile one Swan
remained three days, arriving Feb. 6th, 1881.

Columbidæ.--Rock Dove. Only record: One sighted at Monach, and flew
away again about midnight. Fresh east breeze and rain.

Rallidæ.--Corn Crake. Occurred first as follows:--Mull of Galloway, May
5th; Loch Ryan, 4th; Skervuile, 22nd; Kyleakin, 24th; Butt of Lewis,
28th; Rhu Stoir, June 20th.

Charadriadæ.--Golden Plover. Spring (or autumn ?), June 20th, at Rhu
Stoir. Autumn: At Butt of Lewis, Rhuvaal, Rhinns of Islay, Turnberry,
Corsewall. Earliest Aug. 16th; latest Dec. 30th, at Rhinns of Islay.
Rush: Generally large migration at Corsewall on Sept. 17th. Green
Plover. Spring: Only record May 10th (two seen) at Rhu Stoir. Autumn:
At Butt of Lewis, Dhuheartach, Rhinns of Islay, Corsewall, and
Portpatrick. Earliest Aug. 24th, at Dhuheartach; latest at Portpatrick
on Dec. 4th (a flock flying N.W.). No appreciable rush.

Scolopacidæ.--Curlew. Spring: At Rhu Stoir, Stornoway, Island Glass,
Rhuvaal, Little Ross. Earliest Feb. 5th, at Rhuvaal; latest June 19th,
at Rhu Stoir and Little Ross (widely separated). No rush appreciable.
Autumn: At Monach, Ushenish. Isle Ornsay, Sound of Mull, Lismore,
McArthur's Head, Turnberry, Portpatrick, and Point of Ayr. Earliest at
Portpatrick, Aug. 2nd: latest on Dec. 16th, at Point of Ayr. Pushes
inappreciable, unless at Sound of Mull, sixteen flying S.E. (but
hardly a rush). Snipe. Spring: May 18th, three seen at Island Glass.
Autumn: At Island Glass and Loch Ryan. Earliest at Loch Ryan, Aug.
3rd; latest at Island Glass on Oct. 10th. Woodcock. Autumn: (Scarce);
at Butt of Lewis, Skerryvore, Lismore. Earliest Oct. 28th, at Butt of
Lewis. Whimbrel? At Skerryvore six "small Curlew" resting on rock.
Note.--Whimbrels unusually scarce this year at Monach. Redshank.
Spring: At Butt of Lewis, Skerryvore, and Rhuvaal. Earliest Feb. 5th
(in a flock, so perhaps belong to autumn); March 6th, at Butt of Lewis.
Autumn: At Rhuvaal, Sept. 12th and 17th. Sandpiper. Spring: June
27th, at Skerryvore. Autumn: At Skerryvore, Lismore, and Little Ross.
Earliest Sept. 10th, at Skerryvore; latest Dec. 26th, at Little Ross.
(This can hardly be Common Sandpiper so late.--J. A. H. B.).

Sterninæ.--Common and Arctic Terns. Spring: At Rhu Stoir, Stornoway,
Monach, McArthur's Head, Skervuile, Rhinns of Islay, Little Ross.
Earliest May 10th, at Rhinns of Islay; latest at Stornoway, June 8th
(hereafter breeds). Autumn: At Monach (unusual numbers this year),
Skervuile, Little Ross, and Douglas Head. Earliest July 8th, at
Skervuile; latest at Little Ross on Sept. 2nd.

Larinæ.--Gulls: Black-backed, Herring, and Kittiwake. Spring: At
numerous stations, Stornoway, Island Glass, Skervuile. Earliest May
24th, at Skervuile; latest at Stornoway, June 8th. N.B.--The movements
of Gulls are most erratic and difficult to tabulate, and I prefer to
hold them over at present. Skua. Occurred all summer on west coast
of Lewis, as seen by reporter himself in June, frequented harbour of
Carloway[5] in Lewis, and was seen inside of Rum. Uncommonly abundant
at Island Glass, eight being seen in sight one day. Autumn: August,
October; at Skervuile, Aug. 12th, 13th, and 14th; and at Sound of Mull
on Oct. 12th and 13th, when some forty were seen; N.W. gale. Iceland
Gull. Autumn: At Kyleakin on Nov. 29th and Dec. 20th, both flying S.W.

[Footnote 5: (i.e., Cairlobhaidh.)]

Procellariidæ.--Petrel. Autumn: Only at Lismore, Sept. 17th, S.S.E.,
haze and rain. Noted as rare at Lismore by Mr. Murray; indeed the first
he has seen here in several years.

Pelecanidæ.--Scarts; Cormorants. Spring: Arrived at Cape Wrath to
breed in March. Autumn: Flying N.W. on Oct. 18th past Stornoway; at
Dhuheartach Nov. 10th; and Skervuile on Nov. 14th.

Alcidæ.--Records in every month, except February and December. Spring:
Great numbers. Razorbills flying north on Jan. 7th, at Skervuile.
Puffins seen at Butt of Lewis March 3rd. "Rock Birds" in April, all
day, flying south at Ushenish, and arrive last week in April; breed
first week in May. Hundreds of Puffins flying south on May 10th and
11th at Ushenish. "Auks" flying south at Skervuile. "Puffins" at
Dhuheartach on 2nd and on 20th. Auks, Puffins, &c., at Ushenish,
Skervuile. Earliest July 31st; latest Oct. 18th, 19th, and 20th,
at Ushenish. Rush: Thousands at Ushenish, along with Gannets and
Kittiwakes, feeding and flying south all day.

Great Northern Divers.--Spring: At Skerryvore, two seen in June.
Autumn: At Sound of Mull two seen feeding, male and feeding; at same
place, two on 10th.


General Remarks.

In 1879 there was scarcity of birds at many important stations, such as
Butt of Lewis and Monach Island, Skerryvore and Dhuheartach. In that
year westerly and N.W. winds prevailed. In 1880 larger numbers were
noted. In that year easterly gales and winds prevailed all through the
migratory season. In 1879 migrants were scarce at the more northerly
stations, being compressed by the westerly winds more towards the
south, but in 1880 they reached much further north, being expanded by
the following easterly gales and winds, as we have seen in treating of
the east coast of Scotland this year.

The stations visited by the largest numbers of birds are the Bell
Rock and Isle of May, both being stations pretty far southward, and
Pentland Skerries, a more northern station. We now find also that on
the west coast the stations sending fullest numerical returns are also
southerly stations, and for the most part are situated south of the
Firth of Clyde. Both on east and west coasts all returns coming in from
north of Firth of Clyde in west, and north of Firth of Tay in east,
except Pentland Skerries, report scarcity of birds as compared with
last season (1880), and after November birds were unusually scarce.
Writing from North Ronaldshay Mr. Tulloch tells us that birds seldom
come so far north during migration, but usually trend more towards the
mainland. On the west coast, at Rhu Stoir, very few birds are reported
after November in most seasons, and similar reports come from Island
Glass and others of the more northerly stations. The great gales from
W. and S.W. during November and December made all birds scarce at
Monach Island, even Eider Ducks being unusually scarce. At Skerryvore
birds never struck lanterns in flocks this year, but only in scattered
instances. It will thus be seen that the migratory seasons of 1879 and
1881 most closely resemble each other, as regards our Scottish coasts,
whilst that of 1880 was more abnormal, owing to the easterly winds
prevailing.

It would almost appear that the great rush of migrants in September on
the Bell Rock, and more noticeably on Isle of May, would also account
for the collection of birds at stations on the west coast south of the
Firth of Clyde, as the dates tally with each other on both coasts, to
see which it is only necessary to compare between them under several
of the species. I have also independent reports upon the large crowds
of birds seen passing south over the Solway Firth at these dates, few
of which appear to have been seen north of the Firth of Clyde.[6]
Rushes have not been so large, yet they are indicated with tolerable
precision by the returns. The extremely regular and open winter has no
doubt much to do with this, the temperature in Great Britain having
been higher than for many years previous. But these throbs or rushes
being distinctly traceable is owing, on the other hand, I believe, to
the prevailing wind fully as much as to the severity or non-severity of
the weather. Rushes are normal phenomena in the West of Europe, because
westerly or north-westerly or southwesterly winds usually prevail
there. Regular or more dispersed movements of birds in the West of
Europe are abnormal, because easterly winds are abnormal there. In 1880
we had a _spread-fan_ of migration, if I may so express it. In 1879
and 1881, in Scotland, we had a _closed-fan_ of migration. The natural
result of the wide-spread fan is continuous streams of migration and
no rushes; that of the closed-fan great throbs and rushes, for birds
prefer to travel with a beam wind and wait for favourable winds, and
do not often voluntarily start on their flight with a following wind.
The occurrence of the white-spotted form of Blue-throated Warbler after
a succession of tremendous S.E. gales, culminating in the dreadful
hurricane of Oct. 14th, clearly shows, I think, that acts of voluntary
migration do not take place in following winds. This Bluethroat was
caught up and borne away, _nolens volens_, and our Mid-Atlantic notes
in 1880 show similar abnormal results from prevalence of easterly
gales. It is to be regretted that we have no returns this season from
Mid-Atlantic, owing to Mr. Anderson's engagements in the Mediterranean.
Even total absence or perfectly negative evidence of birds in
Mid-Atlantic would have given us a valuable standpoint as compared with
the great mortality of 1880.[7]

[Footnote 6: Mr. R. Service contributes the following:--"The severe
gales retarded the migration of the shore birds during October to a
great extent, causing them to "accumulate" in our district for several
weeks. On October 12th I saw a twenty-acre field completely covered
with Lapwings. At the same time, and for about a fortnight afterwards,
the number of birds on the Solway banks was most extraordinary. The
great majority of these were Bar-tailed Godwits, Oystercatchers,
and Knots. Just outside the line of breakers opposite the rocks at
Southerness Point, Scaups and Scoters were especially numerous, diving
above the mussel beds. As they rose and fell on the crests of the
heaving waves these birds formed many an interesting and beautiful
group."]

[Footnote 7: I may mention here that I have made an endeavour to enlist
the whaling captains of Dundee in our service, but have not yet learned
whether it has been successful or not. I had copies of the British
Association Abstract reprinted in a cheap form, and I sent a bundle to
Dundee for distribution amongst the captains. Should Mr. Anderson yet
give us any Mediterranean statistics, they can appear as an Appendix to
our Report for 1882.]

The lines of migration indicated in my Report of Scotland for 1879 and
1880, and conclusions drawn from statistics of these two years, appear
to me to be borne out by those of 1881, as regards the semicircular
form of the migration, an account of which I have already given in our
last report (_op. cit._, pp. 18, 19).

The subject of heights of lanterns and their colours as attractions
for birds has not developed as yet any fresh facts, but, with the
conviction that they will yet do so, I still retain the table of
heights given. Actual experiment, however, would very likely very soon
set this part of the subject at rest (vide General Remarks, East Coast
of Scotland Report, 1880, pp. 19, 20). A light-vessel or two placed in
an equally favourable position with, let us say, the Isle of May or the
Bell Rock on the east coast, or at some point north of Tweed, would,
I believe, soon show us whether the preponderance of records south
of the Tweed is entirely due to old-established lines of migration,
or to the number of light-vessels on the English coast, or partly to
both. It would, I think, assist in proving or disproving theories of
land-communications which have been advanced and disputed by previous
writers. At present we cannot positively state from our present data
whether an actual or only an apparent preponderance of birds pass south
of the Tweed in autumn. It appears a little curious to find, however,
a highway of migration by the Pentland Firth so much further north
than the stations mentioned. Writing from North Ronaldshay Mr. Tulloch
remarks upon the usual scarcity of birds there, and says "they keep
more direct for the mainland"; and he remarks also upon the abundance
of birds seen in September and November at Pentland Skerries, where
he was lighthouse-keeper for four years. He remarks on the abundance
of Mountain Thrushes, Blackbirds, Owls, Woodcocks, Wrens, Robins, and
Titmice which occur there when the wind is from the east, and from
which station I have a large numerical return this year. This at first
sight appears to be a contradiction of what I have said about the
bulk of the birds passing south of Bell Rock, but, be it noted, the
prevailing winds at Pentland Skerries from August 23rd to September
12th were from points between north and south by east, but never by
west, and thereafter, between September 14th and October 10th, they
were prevailing south to south-west, but never west or north-west.
From October 14th they backed to north-east, and easterly winds again
prevailed here on till late in November. The isolated position of the
lights at Pentland Skerries, combined with the local prevalence of
easterly winds, is perhaps sufficient to account for the large mass of
the records. At all events I think the Pentland Skerries returns are
deserving, both now and in future, of special attention and study, and
I look upon it as a particularly interesting station.

Isle of May stands this year at the head of the list for numerical
returns, I having received seven full schedules from Mr. Agnew,
principally referring to autumn migration. Next comes Bell Rock, but
two out of three schedules refer to spring migration, of which more
anon. Then Sumburgh Head and Pentland Skerries, about equal, but
the latter rather the larger, both returning three filled schedules,
principally autumn migration.[8]

[Footnote 8: Besides several more relating to 1882.]

Regarding the spring migration, the Bell Rock and the Isle of May
have hitherto held their place as yielding the largest returns, and
very considerable numerical returns are given for 1881. Now, Sandwich
Terns pass every spring up north along the coast of Forfarshire, but
shoot off from the land again, and do not breed upon much of the
suitable lands they pass over. An occasional pair of birds do remain
and breed, as is shown by the nesting of this species on Inch Mickery,
in the Firth of Forth, this past season, and on a previous occasion
at the same place. In the same way we know that Grey Plover, Knot,
and Bar-tailed Godwit shoot off the land at Spurn Point, as they are
obtained there in full breeding dress, but nowhere to the north of it
in breeding plumage, except in isolated cases. The routes of spring
migrants, while they are usually more direct than those of autumn
migrants, are perhaps more difficult to trace, and our statistics as
yet are far from perfect. Since the above remarks were penned I have a
well-filled schedule from Isle of May relating to the spring migration
of 1882, which, however, will be included in our next Report.

The extraordinarily large migration of raptorial birds is worth a
remark here, and it is interesting to find with what regularity and
precision such foreign species as the Rough-legged Buzzard recur
year after year along certain very clearly defined lines, records of
captures constantly indicating this.

It will be seen that the results of our statistics on the Scottish
coasts show a "closed-fan" of migration, owing to prevalence of
westerly winds, except at Pentland Skerries, where local easterly
winds blew at the times of migration in September and November, and on
the Scottish coast, from Bell Rock and southward, we had the greatest
rushes, whilst further south, on the English coasts, there was an
"open-fan" of migration, owing to a prevalence of east winds.




WEST COAST OF ENGLAND.


Schedules, &c., were forwarded to forty lighthouses and light-vessels
on the west coast of England; from twenty-four returns have been
received. The absence of returns is in some cases due to accident,
_e. g._, at Caernarvon L.V., Mr. Bowen, the keeper, had been disabled
with a broken rib, the result of a fall on board in a gale of wind,
and there had been several changes of mates within a short period.
In part, absence of reports is accounted for by the situation of the
station--_e. g._, at Nash are two lighthouses, and from the western
one, Mr. Richards, who last year supplied us with a well-filled
schedule, having retired from the service, his successor objected to
continue the work on the ground that it is so near to Nash E. On Lundy
Island also are two stations close to each other, and last year the two
reports therefrom were almost identical in every particular instance.
Menai is reported as being out of the track of birds migrating, as also
St. Bees. Still we should be glad to hear from these and the other
stations that have not reported, and hope that next year all will send
in returns, however slight, as "every little helps." Special thanks are
due to those who have reported; they have given themselves considerable
trouble, which will, however, not be thrown away; and the novelty and
interesting nature of the work may in some degree perhaps compensate
them for their pains. Mr. Baker writes, from Milford, "It would be a
great help if a book could be supplied to different reporters, with a
print of the different birds in it." If funds can be raised, we hope in
time to & able to supply this want.

To Mr. Thompson we are indebted for a report from a new station,
Allonby, on Solway Firth, which promises to be a good one, and
which--being the northernmost on this coast--now heads our list.

The numbers of the stations differ from those of last year's report,
beginning at 121 instead of 110 (the last included in Report of West
Coast of Scotland being 120). The following is the list, those from
which returns have been received being marked with an asterisk (*):--

  121.  *Allonby, L.H. C. Donald Thompson.
  122.  *St. Bees, L.H.; the tower 55 feet high, on cliffs estimated at
           300 to 350 feet. R. E. Pizey.
  123.  *Morecambe Bay, L.V.; centre of light above sea-level, 36 feet.
           Henry Clavell, P. K.; Dl. Kneale, mate.
  124.  *Air, L.H. C. H. Aveston.
  125.  *Menai, L.H. Joseph Steer, P. K.
  126.  *Skerries, L.H. J. Garrett, P. K.; H. Knott.
  127.  *Holyhead Breakwater, L.H. R. Prichard.
  128.   North Stack, Fog Horn Station. John Harvey, gunner.
  129.  *South Stack, L.H. W. E. Burgess.
  130.   Caernarvon Bay, L.V.; centre of light above sea-level, 37 feet.
           W. Bowen.
  131.  *St. Tudwal's, L.H. W. Davies.
  132.  *Bardsey, L.H. Thomas Bowen.
  133.   Cardigan Bay, L.V.
  134.  *Bull Point, L.H.; centre of light above high water level, 154
           feet. George Knott.
  135.   South Bishop, L.H. John White.
  136.   Smalls, L.H. W. Boulton.
  137.  *Great Castle Head, L.H. W. S. Spicer.
  138.  *Milford (Low), L.H. Fixed, white; centre of light from ground,
           26 feet; Headland 150 feet from sea-level. (Syren fog horn
           5 seconds every 3 minutes during fog, snow, or thick
           weather, about equidistant from each light). G. Baker.
  139.   Milford (High), L.H. Fixed, white, showing red at entrance to
           harbour. G. Baker.
           (These two are looked upon as one station).
  140.   Caldy, L.H. Centre of light above sea-level, about 250 feet.
           W. Ebben, P. K.
  141.   Helwick, L.V. Thomas Cornell, mate.
  142.   Scarweather, L.V. Henry Jenkins.
  143.   Nash (Low or W.), L.H.--Wilson.
  144.  *Nash (High or E.), L.H. Three lights: 1, upper, white, fixed,
           visible 19 miles; 2, fixed, red, shown from a window
           below lantern, shown N. of N.W. 1/4 W., which bearing
           will lead 1/4 mile S. of Breaksea Buoy; 3, a ray of red
           shown from a window below Breaksea light, extending
           over an arc between S.S.E. 3/4 E. and S.E. 3/4 S., about
           2-1/2 cables southward of Tuskar Buoy. H. T. Nicholas.
  145.   Breaksea, L.V.
  146.  *Flatholm, L.H. W. Dale, P. K.
  147.  *Usk, L.H. Centre of light above sea-level, about 50 feet. Amos
           Russell.
  148.   Avon, L.H. William Taylor.
  149.  *Burnham, L.H. About 100 feet above sea-level. William Lewis.
  150.  *Bideford, L.H. Low light, white, centre above sea-level 48 feet;
           Upper light white, centre above sea-level 96 feet. Edwd.
           Roberts.
  151.   Lundy Fog Gun Station. John Morgan.
  152.  *Lundy, L.H. Upper light revolving, powerful white, about 540
           feet above sea-level. James Parsons.
  153.  *Hartland Point, L.H. John Griffiths.
  154.   Trevose Head, L.H. Fixed, white; upper 180 feet and lower
           120 feet above sea-level. W. Bowen.
  155.  *Godrevy, L.H. Richard Trahair.
  156.  *Longships, L.H. Red towards shore; lantern 110 feet above
           high-water mark. William Jones, P. K.
  157.   Sevenstones, L.V. Daniel Norton.
  158.   Wolfrock, L.H. W. D. Crask.
  159.  *Scilly, L.H. White, 150 feet above sea-level. E. L. Davis.
  160.   Bishop Rock, L.H.

In the above list particulars of colour and height of lights, &c., are
given where omitted from list of last year or where there have been
alterations. Notes on the spring migration, being but few, have not
been drawn up in a distinct report. Next year it is hoped that these
may be much fuller and more general.

Altogether about sixty-two species have been noticed on this
coast-line, including about fourteen species of Gulls and Water-birds.


To the various observers, and to the Trinity Superintendents, Mr.
Davison, Mr. Evans, and Mr. Tregarthen, our thanks are given for their
continued interest and kind assistance.



SEPARATE REPORT ON EACH SPECIES.

Song Thrush, _Tardus musicus_, Linn.; Fieldfare, Turdus pilaris,
Linn.--Spring: At Scilly, from Jan. 13th to 25th, large flocks of
Thrushes, Fieldfares, Larks, and Starlings remained during the snow. At
Godrevy, on 14th, a great number of Thrushes, Starlings, and Lapwings
from noon to 4 p.m., fresh E.S.E. breeze, frost and snow. At Air (River
Dee), on March 30th, a Common Thrush was seen, at 9 a.m., light
N.W. breeze, mist.--Autumn: Earliest date recorded Oct. 24th, when
one killed at Godrevy, 1.30 a.m., mod. S.S.E. breeze, mist and rain;
latest notice Dec. 24th, at Skerries, one killed, 3 a.m., strong S.S.W.
breeze, misty.

Redwing, _Turdus iliacus_, Linn.--Separately noticed at Godrevy only,
namely, Nov. 4th, at 3.30 a.m., one killed, fresh S.W. by S. breeze,
mist and rain. On Nov. 13th, one killed, 6.10 p.m., fresh S.S.W.
breeze, fog. On 22nd, at 2 p.m., one struck, fresh W.S.W. gale, squally
and misty.

Blackbird, _Turdus merula_, Linn.--Autumn: First notice Sept. 28th, at
Morecambe Bay, "one cock Blackbird in the vicinity." Through October
the notices are more frequent and general. At Skerries, South Stack,
and at Bull Point, on 25th and 26th, several struck and some were
killed. At Bull Point, Oct. 31st, "a female" struck against the W. side
of the lantern, 1.40 a.m., light S.E. breeze, cloudy, misty. The only
stations reporting occurrences in November are Allonby, where through
the month "a good many were about the hedgerows"; and one instance at
Morecambe Bay (where none were seen in October), _viz._ on 4th, "a
young female in vicinity." The next and last notice is Godrevy, where
on Dec. 25th, at 6 a.m., one struck, gentle S.W. breeze, clear.

Wheatear, _Saxicola œnanthe_, Linn.--On Sept. 23rd, at South Stack,
between 12 and 2 a.m., several struck and one was killed, light S.E.
gloomy, misty. This is the only instance given.

Redbreast, _Erithacus rubecula_, Linn.--Spring: At Great Castle Head,
on Jan. 20th, also on Feb. 1st, 4th, and 24th, "two or three Robins and
Sparrows" were noticed about 7 a.m., mod. S.S.E., E.S.E., S.W., and
N. breezes respectively. On March 1st, at 9 a.m., two Robins and two
Magpies, fresh N.W. breeze, gloomy and showery, with snow. Autumn: On
Oct. 28th, at Morecambe Bay, "a female Redbreast" in vicinity, 10 a.m.,
mod. N.N.E. breeze.

Nightingale, _Daulias luscinia_, Linn.--Spring: On April 22nd, at
Burnham, "heard at 5 a.m. for first time, being one day later than last
year, and in the very same spot."--W. Lewis, P. K.

Goldcrest, _Regulus cristatus_, Koch; Chiffchaff, _Phylloscopus
collybita_, Vieill.--Spring: On May 2nd, at Nash E., 200 Chiffchaffs
were counted from 1 a.m. to sunrise, light E. air, haze; 196 were
killed. Autumn: On Oct. 26th, at South Stack, a few Goldcrests from 12
to 4 a.m., one killed, gentle E. breeze. The same day, at Morecambe
Bay, one (cock) Goldcrest flew on board, struck the deck-house and
fell on deck, but was not killed; and at Nash, the same day, 12 to 18
Chiffchaffs passed at 4 a.m., and 6 were killed, light E.N.E. breeze,
rain. On Dec. 31st, at 3 a.m., one Goldcrest struck at South Stack,
light S.W. breeze, cloudy. From Flatholm, Mr. Dale reports "Gold
crested Wrens and Chiffchaffs not so numerous as usual in the autumn."
Taking the whole family of the Turdidæ, the chief movement as observed
on the west coast occurred the latter end of October: this, we find,
agrees with a general movement of the family noticed on both coasts
of Scotland, and also a rush from E. to W. observed on the English
east coast. On Oct. 14th was "a whole gale" from the E., after which
the winds continued E. and S.E. to the end of the month--the force
when noted ranging from 2 to 7. With the exception of the Redwing,
and excepting the note of Blackbirds and of Robins seen at Allonby,
there has scarcely been an instance recorded of any of the family
seen throughout November. There is an absolute absence of Fieldfares,
and the scarcity of the family generally is remarked on from many
stations. Thus, from Allonby, Mr. Thompson writes (Nov., 1881), "No
Fieldfares seen in this part, which is very unusual." At Skerries, of
Blackbirds, Thrushes, Fieldfares, &c., "very few are now seen." At
Lundy, "till January," Mr. Parsons writes, "we had no birds on the
islands, only now and then a Blackbird or Thrush." At Usk, Blackbird
and Thrush seen occasionally. And from Nash E., Mr. Nicholas, P.K.,
writes in October, "Blackbirds and Thrushes have been very scarce since
the gale and snowstorm of Jan. 18th last," and "not one Thrush has
been seen here since January." Note:--At Bardsey, however, Mr. Bowen
says of Blackbirds, Grey-birds (?), Jackdaws, House and _Common (?)_
Sparrows, and Starlings, that they are resident. Does this mean that
they are seen all the year round; even so, is there no increase and
decrease in the number noticeable, and if so, when? Are _Grey_-birds
the Grey-backed Crows? What is the difference between "House" and
"Common" Sparrow? Does the latter mean the Hedgesparrow, or is one the
Tree Sparrow? If there be any doubt, a specimen, or the skin, head, or
wings sent through the post would serve to identify the species.

Wren, _Troglodytes parvulus_, Koch.--Autumn: First notice Sept. 4th,
at Skerries, at 2 a.m., several struck the glass and remained till
daybreak, light S.S.W. breeze, hazy. On 24th, at South Stack, a few
struck between 9 and 10 p.m., W.N.W., fog. And on Sept. 30th, at Bull
Point, one struck N.E. side of the lantern, with a mod. S.S.E. breeze,
hazy (not a following wind). On Oct. 23rd, at Skerries, Wrens with
Linnets were flying about all day; and--the latest notice--on 26th, one
passed Morecambe Bay L.V. at sunrise, flying N.

Wagtail, _Motacilla (?)_.--Spring: On Feb. 10th, at Great Castle
Head, four Dishwashers at 5 a.m., strong S.S.W. breeze, showery and
foggy.--Autumn: The first notice at Nash E., on Aug. 21st, "thirty to
forty Wagtails passed S.W.," 6 a.m., mod. S.S.E. breeze, very clear.
They are not again noticed till Sept. 8th, at Bull Point, when about
two dozen "Dishwashers and Linnets" passed inland, 6 a.m., S.S.W.,
calm, clear. On the 19th, at Morecambe Bay, three Wagtails flying S.W.,
7.30 a.m., gentle N.W. breeze; and on the 25th, "one" flying about the
ship in the forenoon. On Oct. 5th, one flying S. by E., mod. N.E. by N.
breeze; and on 7th, one flying N.W., light S.S.W. breeze. This is the
last recorded, except at Allonby, where, Mr. Thompson writes on 20th,
"Wagtails are common in these parts."

Meadow Pipit, _Anthus pratensis_, Linn.--Autumn: First notice Aug.
25th, at Nash, "eight Titlarks passed S.," strong S.W. breeze, rain.
At Morecambe Bay, Sept. 25th, light N.W. breeze, some passed S.S.E.
On 27th, "one or two at a time going N.N.W., W., and S.W.," a gentle
N.W. by N. breeze; and on 28th, going S.W., light S. by E. breeze. Till
Oct. 25th are constant notices of small flocks passing, their general
direction being S.W. and S.: wind ranging from calm to mod. gale, but
generally (when instances noted) not strong; till 8th easterly, then
till 16th W. prevailing; after which E., with more or less of N. Time
of records for the most part, the forenoon. At Longships, on Oct. 28th,
one fluttered about the lantern at midnight, fresh N. to N.W. breeze,
drizzly. This is the last notice till Nov. 29th, when at Morecambe Bay
L.V. Titlarks were seen at 7.40 a.m., flying N.E., mod. N.W. by W.
breeze.

Rock Pipit, _Anthus obscurus_, Lath.--At St. Tudwal's, in Jan., 1882,
"two pairs of Sea Larks" are reported, with the note, "they remain here
for the winter" (Is the Rock Pipit meant by Sea Lark? If a specimen
were procured and sent by post it might easily be identified; or is it
the Ringed Dotterel?).

Swallow, _Hirundo rustica_, Linn.--Autumn: First notice at Skerries,
Aug. 14th, "two land-swallows flying about the island this morning."
Next notice Sept. 3rd and 4th, at Milford, "a considerable quantity";
and on 10th Sept., at Bideford, "hundreds flying round and lighting on
lantern," 5 p.m., calm E., fine, misty. On 18th and 25th several were
seen from Skerries and from Morecambe Bay, flying S. and S.S.E: and on
Oct. 2nd and 3rd some passed Morecambe Bay, flying S.E. by S., and S.
On 7th, five were seen at Godrevy, 12.15 p.m.; and on 19th, at Bull
Point, "a large flock passed, flying E.," strong E.S.E. breeze, this
being the latest instance recorded.

Martin, _Chelidon urbica_, Linn.--Autumn: Sept. 24th, at Skerries,
several were seen flying about the island with Swallows during the
afternoon. From Flatholm Mr. Dale writes, "about the middle of
September there was an unusually large quantity of Martins for a few
days."

Greenfinch, _Ligurinus chloris_, Linn.; Yellowhammer, _Emberiza
citrinella_, Linn.--Noticed only at Allonby, where, Oct. 20th, Green
Linnets and Yellowhammers were seen in mixed flocks.

Sparrow, _Passer domesticus_, Linn.; _P. montanus_, Linn.--Spring: On
Jan. 12th, at North Stack, "a flock of Mountain Sparrows" flying S.W.,
strong N.E. breeze, snow. At Great Castle Head, on 30th, "Sparrows
with Robins"; and the notices are continuous throughout February (on
14th with "Ravens"). In March, 4th and 10th, "Sparrows with Robins."
On 31st, "a flight of Sparrows." The time of the observations mostly
between 6 and 8 a.m.; the weather invariably gloomy or foggy; breeze
gentle to strong, and southerly, except on 24th N., and on 31st E.N.E.;
the direction of flight not noted. Autumn: Sept. 11th, at Nash, "large
flocks of Common Sparrows passed S.W.," light N.E. breeze. On 12th,
"twenty" in same direction, light N., misty. At Bardsey, House and
Common Sparrow (?) reported "resident all the year round."

Chaffinch, _Fringilla cœlebs_, Linn.--Autumn: Sept. 6th, at Nash,
"fifteen to twenty Chaffinches struck at midnight, four killed," mod.
E. breeze, rain. On Oct. 17th, at Morecambe Bay, one, flying W.N.W.,
mod. S. breeze; and on 19th, one, flying S.E., mod. S.E. gale.

Linnet, _Linota cannabina_, Linn.--Autumn: First notice at Nash, Sept.
7th, "a large flock of Linnets passed W. at 9 p.m.," fresh E.S.E.
breeze, mist. On 8th, at Bull Point, "about two dozen Linnets and
Dishwashers," 6 a.m., passing inland, S.S.W., calm, clear. On 25th,
at Skerries, "many Linnets and Wrens all night striking the light,"
only a few killed, mod. W.S.W. breeze, misty. On 27th, at South Stack,
"about fifty Linnets" passed W.N.W. at 7 a.m., gentle N.N.W. breeze,
fine and clear. From this station flocks were observed till Oct. 16th
passing N.W. or W.N.W., with light S.E. wind. At Skerries they were
again noticed between Oct. 17th and 27th, generally with Larks, once
with Blackbirds also, and once "Linnets and Wrens"; wind on every
occasion S.E. or E.S.E., light breeze to fresh gale. On 24th and 25th,
fresh E.S.E. gale, "Linnets, Larks, and Blackbirds passed all night,
many striking, and a few being killed." On Oct. 16th, at Milford,
"a considerable number passed." At Godrevy, Nov. 7th, one struck,
light S.S.W. breeze, clear. The latest is reported from Milford, Nov.
23rd, "a considerable number with Larks have been about the land here
the last few days," fresh breeze to mod. gale S.S.W. to W., "which
prevented their going farther."

Bullfinch, _Pyrrhula europæ_ (Vieill.).--Oct. 28th at Morecambe Bay, a
female noticed at 2 p.m., mod. N.N.E. breeze.

Sky Lark, _Alauda arvensis_, Linn.--Spring: From Jan. 13th to 25th,
"Sky Larks seen at Lundy and at Scilly." On 11th, "a quantity" arrived
with Plovers and Starlings at Milford, and remained all day. On 12th
and 13th, at South Stack, "continuous flocks of Larks and Starlings
passed," fresh N.E. breeze, snow. Autumn: Sept. 24th, "a flock of
Sky Larks" passed S.E., 3 p.m., mod. S.E. breeze, mist. On 25th, at
Morecambe Bay, "three," and on 27th, at same hour, 10 a.m., "two
passed" N.E., gentle N.W. by N. breeze. On 29th, at Nash, "a few
Larks with Starlings" passed at noon, gentle E.N.E. breeze, mist. At
Morecambe, Oct. 5th, one passed S., mod. E. by S. breeze. On 16th,
three passed W.S.W., light N.N.E. breeze. At Skerries, throughout
October, notices of passing chiefly at night, striking, and some
killed; wind mod. S.E. to E.S.E. On 16th, at South Stack, "a flock of
Larks accompanying a flock of Linnets" passed W.N.W., light S.E. air.
On 21st, at Milford, a flight passed inland, 1 p.m., E.S.E. clear (the
following night there was a fresh gale). In November, at Morecambe,
on 4th, "a female"; and at Milford, 23rd, "a considerable number with
Linnets been about the last few days," S.S.W. to W. fresh breeze to
mod. gale. On Dec. 2nd, at Morecambe, "a male Sky Lark came on board
and was caught," 7.45 a.m., mod. S.W. breeze, gloomy, misty. At
Skerries, on 22nd, "a few Larks" struck from 10 to 11 p.m., one being
killed, gentle E.N.E. breeze.

Starling, _Sturnus vulgaris_, Linn.--Spring: At South Stack, Jan. 12th
and 13th, Starlings and Larks. On 14th, at Godrevy, "a great number
with Thrushes and Lapwings" from noon to 4 p.m., fresh E.S.E. breeze,
frost and snow. At Scilly, 13th to 25th, "large flocks with Larks and
Fieldfares." On 7th several at Nash, and on 16th "flocks" passing
N.W., light air, misty. On Feb. 16th, at Great Castle Head, "six were
seen with Ravens," 4 p.m., mod. S.S.E. breeze, rain; and at Scilly,
on 22nd, with Lapwings, Plovers, and Curlews, 9 a.m., strong E.N.E.
breeze. Autumn: First notice at Nash, Aug. 13th, "a small flock" passed
S.W., 9 a.m., gentle W. breeze, fog; so also on 19th, mod. E. breeze,
mist. On Sept. 24th "a small flock" passed S.E., mod. S.E. breeze,
mist, rain. On 29th, "twenty-four Starlings and a few Larks" passed
S.W. at noon, gentle E.N.E. breeze, mist. At Morecambe, Sept. 27th,
at 11.50 p.m., "two going W. and chirping loud," light W. air. On
Oct. 1st, at Scilly, "flocks flying about in the morning," mod. S.E.
breeze. On 13th, at South Stack, 7.30 a.m., "a very large flock rushed
on the island," fresh N.N.W. breeze; they passed to E.; on 17th a few
passed, two struck, but were not killed. On 19th, at Morecambe, one
going S.S.E. at 8 a.m., and at 3.23 p.m. three going S.E., mod. S.E.
gale. On 25th, one going E., mod. E. breeze. At Nash, on 21st, fifty
to sixty passed, 4 a.m., fresh E.S.E. breeze, mist, rain (11 killed);
and on 27th, at about the same hour, 100 to 150 passed to S.W., 10
to 20 struck, 4 killed, mod. E.N.E. breeze. At Bideford, throughout
October, hundreds seen often in the morning, flying past from N.W.
to E., to feed on Branston Burrows. In November, at South Stack, on
12th, flocks passed S., about fifty rested on the island, 8 a.m., mod.
S.W. breeze, fine, clear. On 15th, at Morecambe, a flock at 10.55 a.m.
passed, flying E.S.E., fresh S. breeze, mist, rain. At Nash, the same
day and hour, 200 to 300 passed S.W., fresh S. breeze, mist (one white
Starling among them); on 24th, twelve to eighteen passed at 8 a.m.,
strong S.W. breeze, clear. On Dec. 14th, 300 passed S.W. at noon, mod.
S.W. breeze, mist, rain; and constant occurrences are noted at this
station up to Feb. 7th, 1882. On Dec. 23rd a large flock passed to E.,
8.30 a.m., calm; and on 31st, at same hour, a large flock passed to
S.E., gentle S.S.E. breeze, fine and clear. On Jan. 16th, 1882, at 7.50
p.m., some struck the lantern, strong S. breeze, misty. At Skerries,
on 17th, a great many passed all night, fifteen killed, strong S.W.
breeze, mist; and at sunrise large flocks flying towards the land. On
20th, at Hartland Point, one struck, 9 p.m., calm. From Flatholm they
are reported to have been very scarce.

Magpie, _Pica rustica_, Scop.--On March 1st, Great Castle Head, two
Magpies and three Robins seen, 9 a.m., mod. N.W. breeze, gloomy,
showery.

Jackdaw, _Corvus monedula_, Linn.--Autumn: In October it is reported
from Allonby that a number of Jackdaws frequent these parts. On Oct.
25th, at Morecambe L.V., one seen at noon going S. by W., lighted on
mizen-mast a moment, and then flew away very tired, strong E. breeze,
clear.

Crow, _Corvus cornix_, Linn.; Chough, _Pyrrhocorax graculus_,
Linn.--Spring: Feb. 18th, at Great Castle Head, "four Muscle Crows,"
5 a.m., mod. to fresh E. breeze. On 22nd, at 7 a.m., six, E.N.E. On
March 22nd, at 8 a.m., four Crows with two Ravens, strong breeze W.S.W.
to mod. gale; and on 26th, four Crows. Autumn: Sept. 13th, at Nash, a
small flock of Choughs passed S.W. at 3 p.m., gentle N.N.W. breeze,
clear. At Morecambe, Sept. 28th, one Crow in vicinity, 11.20 a.m.,
gentle S. breeze, slight fog. On Oct. 13th, at Nash, a very large flock
of Crows and Gulls seen inland from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., mod. W. breeze,
very clear; and on Dec. 14th, 40 Crows (with 300 Starlings) at noon,
mod. S.W. breeze. On Jan. 20th, 100 with Gulls passed S.W., 11 a.m.
(Would some of these notices refer to Rooks?)

Rook, _Corvus frugilegus_, Linn.--Nov. 6th, at Allonby, a great many
Rooks coming from N., flying S., strong S.W. breeze.

Raven, _Corvus corax_, Linn.--Spring: At Great Castle Head, Feb. 14th,
two with Sparrows, 4 p.m., strong S. breeze, showers. On 15th, two with
Starlings at same hour, mod. S.S.E. breeze. On March 22nd, two, and
four Crows, 8 a.m., strong W.S.W. breeze, showers.

Cuckoo, _Cuculus canorus_, Linn.--Spring: At Air (River Dee), on April
10th, a male and female seen, 4.30 p.m., mod. S.S.E. breeze, clear. On
19th, at Burnham, Cuckoo heard, weather very cold. At Nash, on 15th,
eleven Cuckoos passed N.W. from 1 to 3 p.m., calm, mist. On 16th, five
passed N.W. from 8 to 9 a.m., light E.S.E. air, mist. On May 4th, four
passed S.W. at 9 a.m., gentle E.S.E. breeze, mist, rain.

Falcon, _Falco peregrinus_ (Tunstall).--At Morecambe L.V., Nov. 21st,
3.30 p.m., a Falcon Hawk fell in the water close to the L.V., very
tired, was drowned. At Hartland Point, Jan. 24th, 1882, a very large
Hawk seen at a distance, 3.30 p.m., calm and clear.

Cormorant, _Phalacrocorax carbo_, Linn.--At Skerries, from May to
September, Cormorants and Curlews seen occasionally. At Bideford, in
September, a few Shags. At Morecambe, Oct. 9th, one Cormorant going W.,
2.15 p.m., strong N.W. breeze, about through the day.

Gannet, _Sula bassana_, Linn.--Spring: At Holyhead, April 29th, four
crossed, 1 p.m., flying from E. to W., mod. S.W. gale. Autumn: At
Skerries, Sept. 11th, several at sunrise flying W. at a great height,
mod. N.E., clear. At Morecambe, Oct. 7th, 7 a.m., one going S.; and on
8th, one going E. On 9th a good many, and on 10th a few were seen. At
Hartland Point, Nov. 20th, several flying to and fro (and during the
whole of the month).

Heron, _Ardea cinerea_, Linn.--At Skerries, Sept. 8th, one alighted
close to the lighthouse, 6 p.m., calm and fine. At Allonby, Oct. 20th,
several observed at 11 a.m. coming from the north, flying S., fresh
N.E. breeze, clear.

Goose, _Anser (?)_--Spring: At Nash E., passing W. in January. At
Sevenstones, on 11th, several flocks passed, flying W.; and at Scilly
on 25th, three were seen. On Dec. 13th, at Hartland Point, Geese in
flights going E., and on 23rd several birds going in same direction.
On Jan. 17th, 1882, several (single birds, not in flights) during the
morning flying W. These are all the instances noted.

Sheldrake, _Tadorna cornuta_, Gmel.--March 29th, at Air (River Dee),
forty-one pairs at sunrise, gentle W.N.W. breeze. Oct. 17th, at
Allonby, two flying S., 8 p.m., mod. S.E. breeze.

Duck, _Anas boschas_, Linn.; _Mareca penelope_, L.; _Œdemia(?)_;
_Querquedula crecca_, Linn.--Spring: At Godrevy, on Jan. 6th, a flock
of Ducks and a Mallard flying W. On 13th and 14th, at Nash, flocks of
Wild Ducks flying W. On 26th, at St. Tudwal's, "Ducks." On March 18th,
Bardsey, three Ducks and one Drake Wigeon, at 1.30 a.m., mod. S.S.W.
breeze, sleet. Autumn: First notice Sept. 1st, at Holyhead, large
flocks of Wild Ducks in bay, 11.30 a.m., fresh N.E. breeze, clear. At
Godrevy, on 15th, four "Black Ducks" (? Scoters), 1.30 p.m., mod. N. by
E. breeze, clear. At Morecambe, on 14th and 15th, at 7 a.m., Wild Ducks
flying S.S.W., light W. breeze, clear. During the first two weeks of
October Wild Ducks are reported as passing towards the S.W., S.E., and
S., the greatest number on the 9th; and on 19th and 24th, Black Ducks
going S.E. or S.S.W. At Scilly, on 18th, three Wild Ducks, strong S.E.
breeze. At Nash, on 21st, four Wild Ducks (Black Ducks) at 3.30 a.m.
struck, one killed, strong E.S.E. breeze. On 26th, at Allonby, five
Grey Ducks at 1.30 p.m., strong E. breeze, clear. In November Black
Ducks and Wild Ducks were noticed from Morecambe Bay, Godrevy, and Air,
passing to S. or E. At Godrevy, Dec. 14th, at 8.30 p.m., one Wild Duck
was killed, fresh N. breeze, clear; and at Air, to Dec. 9th, flocks
of Wild Ducks passed inland about sunset. At Morecambe, on Dec. 2nd,
some were seen flying S.W.; and from Dec. 2nd to 11th Wild Ducks in
numbers--from one and two to thirteen--passed, flying N.W., N.N.W. (and
once W.N.W., with strong W.N.W. breeze), wind S.S.W. or mod. S.S.E.,
generally mist or rain. Time of observation varying from 8.30 a.m. to
3.30 p.m. On 27th one passed, flying S., gentle N.W. breeze. At Nash,
on 20th, fifteen Ducks passed at midnight, two struck (not killed). On
29th, forty to fifty passed S. at 3.20 p.m., light S.W. breeze, fog; on
same day, at 3.30 a.m., 100 to 150 Teal passed S.W. On 31st, four Ducks
passed S.W. at 4 a.m., strong S.W. breeze, clear. On Jan. 24th about
200 seen close to the cliffs all day.

Wood Pigeon, _Columba palumbus_, Linn.--On June 22nd, at Nash, two Wood
Pigeons struck (one killed), 2 a.m., mod. W. breeze. At Skerries, Aug.
--, two Pigeons seen in the afternoon, remained some time. On Oct.
21st, at Nash, at 4 p.m., one killed, fresh E.S.E. breeze. On Nov.
30th, at Allonby, flocks of Wood Pigeons coming from E., flying W.,
strong S.W. breeze, cloudy.

Landrail, _Crex pratensis_, Bechst.--At Nash, June 19th, one killed at
1 a.m., light N. air, fog; again on Oct. 29th, one killed, 3.50 a.m.,
light E.N.E. breeze, mist.

Golden Plover, _Charadrius pluvialis_, Linn.--Spring: At Nash, between
Jan. 3rd and 11th, flocks of Plovers, Peewits, and Starlings passed W.
or N.W. At Bardsey, Feb. 11th, flocks of four and five Golden Plovers
were flying about the island in the daytime, mod. N.E. gale, sleet.
Autumn: Sept. 19th, at Skerries, two remained till evening. At Allonby,
Oct. 20th, Golden Plovers in flocks. At Nash, Dec. 10th, fifty to sixty
Plovers passed W. at 2 p.m., light N.E. breeze, mist. In January, 1882,
at St. Tudwal's, two alighted on the island to rest, one flew away with
difficulty to W., mod. W. gale. On 7th, at Nash, three Plovers killed,
4 a.m., strong N. breeze, showers of hail.

Grey Plover, _Squatarola helvetica_, Linn.--At Allonby, Nov. 7th, three
Grey Plovers seen, one shot, strong S.W. breeze.

Ring Plover, _Ægialitis hiaticula_, Linn.--At Air, March 29th, forty
Ring Plovers at noon, gentle W.N.W. breeze, clear.

Dotterel.--At Bideford, in September, hundreds. (Would this be the
Ringed Dotterel?).

Lapwing, _Vanellus vulgaris_, Bechst.--Spring: At Nash, Jan. 3rd, large
flocks passed W., and on 6th N.W., mod. E. breeze. On 10th, Plovers
and Peewits passed S.W., gentle N.E. breeze; and on 11th, flocks (with
Starlings) passed N.W., light breeze, mist. At Scilly, Jan. 10th, 13th,
and 25th, large flocks of Lapwings and Plovers, mod. E. and N.N.E.
breezes. At Sevenstones, on 11th, large flocks flying W., gentle W.N.W.
breeze, hazy. At Godrevy, on 14th, Lapwings, Starlings, and Thrushes
at 4 p.m., fresh E.S.E. breeze, clear. On 15th, at Skerries, several
were seen flying round the lantern at midnight, strong S.S.W. breeze,
gloomy. At Scilly, Feb. 22nd, 9 a.m., Lapwings with Plovers, Starlings,
and Curlews, strong E.N.E. breeze, mist. Autumn: Aug. 30th, at Air, a
flock hovering about in the morning. This is the only notice from any
station till Oct. 1st, when, at Allonby, large flocks. On 16th, at
Nash, two Peewits and a few Starlings passed S.W., gentle E. breeze,
mist. At Allonby, Nov. 14th, several flocks coming from the north,
flying S., strong S.W. breeze, rain. So on 18th, with gentle E. breeze,
frost. At Morecambe, on Nov. 10th, at 11.30, a flock passed, flying
S.E., fresh W. breeze. On Dec. 12th, at Milford, a considerable number
(probably over 200) seen near, evidently on flight, were following a
leader from the way they flew, light N. breeze, fine sharp frost. On
Dec. 16th, at Nash, 1000 or more Lapwings passed W. at 1 p.m., light
N.E. breeze, mist. At Menai, Peewits all the year round (but is no
increase and decrease of their numbers observable?).

Turnstone, _Strepsilas interpres_, Linn.--At Allonby, Nov. 28th, small
flocks of about a dozen Turnstones noticed on the shore, gentle S.W.
breeze, clear.

Oystercatcher, _Hæmatopus ostralegus_, Linn.--On June 7th and 8th, at
Nash, twenty Curlews and Sea-pies passed N., mod. N. to N.W. breeze. At
Bideford, Sept. 17th, hundreds of Sea-pies visit the mussel-beds all
the year with Curlews, Gulls, and Stints. On Oct. 6th, at Air, several
flocks passed E. at different times of the day, mod. N.N.E. breeze. On
20th, at Allonby, flocks. At Skerries they are said to remain all the
year. (But do all remain all the year? What about the young? Is there
no movement noticeable at any time of the year?)

Woodcock, _Scolopax rusticula_, Linn.; Snipe, _Gallinago cælestis_,
Frenzel.--At Bardsey, Jan. 14th, two passed W. at noon, fresh E.
breeze, mist; on 20th one struck the lantern. At Nash, Jan. 5th, four
Snipe passed S.W. at 3 p.m., fresh E.N.E. breeze, mist. On Oct. 27th,
at Skerries, a Woodcock killed soon after midnight, fresh S.S.E.
breeze. At Nash, Nov. 2nd, two Snipe passed E., mod. E. breeze, rain.
On Dec. 21st, at Skerries, a Woodcock killed at midnight, mod. W.N.W.
gale; and on Dec. 29th, at Nash, four Snipe passed S.W., light S.W.
breeze, mist.

Stint, _Tringa (?)_; Godwit, _Limosa (?)_.--Sept. 17th, at Bideford,
hundreds of Stints with Sea-pies, &c., between half-ebb and half-flood.
At Allonby, Nov. 8th, a large flock of Stints and Godwits wheeling
about.

Sanderling, _Calidris arenaria_, Linn.--At Godrevy, Dec. 20th, and
21st, about 11 a.m., mod. S. and W. by S. breezes, a flock passed W.;
and on 25th, at 12.30 a.m., two Sanderlings struck and one was killed,
fresh S.W. breeze, mist.

Curlew, _Numenius arquata_, Linn.--Spring: At Scilly, from Jan. 13th
to 25th, large flocks, with Lapwings, &c. On 16th, at Skerries, an
unusual number seen all day, mod. breeze, mist. On 22nd Feb. at Scilly,
Starlings and Curlews, E.N.E., strong breeze; and from May to September
they are reported as occasionally seen. At Nash, June 7th and 8th,
twenty Curlews and Seapies passed N. from 6 a.m. to 3 p.m., mod. N.
and N.W. breeze, rain. On 24th to 28th large numbers of Curlews and
Seapies passed S.W. from sunrise to 1 p.m., mod. N.W. to S. breeze,
rain. On July 11th twelve to fifteen Curlews passed S. 9 a.m., fresh W.
breeze, fine. At Air, July 18th, 9.15 p.m., large quantities passed E.,
light W.N.W. breeze, rain. Autumn: At Morecambe, first instance, Sept.
18th, one flying about the ship, followed by a Skua; and on 25th, two
flying S.S.E., gentle N.W. breeze. At Menai they are mentioned as being
more plentiful in August and September; and at Bideford, in September,
hundreds at the mussel-beds with Oystercatchers, &c. At Nash, Oct.
6th, eight passed N.W. at 1.30 p.m., light E. breeze. At Morecambe, on
19th, three passed S.W., strong S.E. gale. And at Skerries, on 18th,
Curlews flying about the island all day, mod. S.E. breeze; on 23rd they
were seen all day, light E.S.E. breeze, clear. At Usk, throughout the
winter, large flocks seen on the sands when tide in, and these remained
about till March, 3882.

Arctic Tern, _Sterna macrura_, Naum.; Lesser Tern, _S. minuta_,
Linn.--At Nash, June 24th to 28th, a large number of Sea Swallows (with
Curlews) passed S.W. from sunrise to 1 p.m., mod. N.W. to S. breeze,
rain. At Skerries, May 1st to September, innumerable quantities of
Arctic Terns or Sea Swallows (come to breed, leaving when young able
to fly). At Bideford, Sept. 17th, a Sea Swallow, 10 p.m., struck the
lantern, and was taken alive, fresh S. breeze, mist. On Sept. 27th, at
Morecambe, three Lesser Terns passed with two Titlarks, flying N.N.W.,
gentle N.W. by N. breeze.

Gull, _Larus_.--Spring: At Great Castle Head, in January up to 20th,
Gulls flew by. At Bull Point, from 11th to 26th, Sea Gulls (grey),
flying rather high, S.W., with mod. breeze from N.W. At Nash, on 9th,
a small flock of Gulls passed N., 11 a.m., light E.N.E. breeze. At
Great Castle Head, March 14th and 18th, four and six Gulls flying
S.S.E. and S.W. Autumn: At Nash, on Aug. 30th, a large flock of Gulls
passed N.W. at 7 a.m., gentle E.N.E. breeze. At South Stack Gulls are
reported as remaining till Aug. 29th. At Bideford hundreds of Common
Gulls seen in September. At Bull Point, on Sept. 16th, a Black-backed
Gull passed W.S.W., 10.15 a.m.; on 17th, at Morecambe, continuous
flocks of Gulls, Black-headed, Grey, and different species. Thence to
Oct. 19th. Flocks of Common Gulls and different species are constantly
recorded; winds from N.N.E. to S.E. by S. (never directly E. or N.,
nor indeed N. of E.); greatest number Sept. 19th to 22nd inclusive. At
Nash, Oct. 13th, a very large flock of Gulls and Crows seen inland from
8 a.m. to 4 p.m., mod. W. breeze, very clear. The same on 27th, gentle
E.N.E. breeze, mist. A great number passsed up and down the Channel
from August to October, about sunrise flying N. and at sunset S. At
Allonby, Nov. 14th, it is "noted for some time past a great quantity of
Kittiwakes been on the coast." At Skerries also an unusual number of
Kittiwakes this year; a few Gulls all the year. At Usk large flocks of
Gulls seen occasionally through the window. At Bardsey Gulls resident;
and at Menai always seen.

Skua, _Stercorarius catarrhactes_, Linn.--The only records from
Morecambe on Sept. 18th, one following a flock of Gulls, and again on
19th and 20th; several on 22nd, in vicinity all day; 23rd, a dozen
going W., 1.30 p.m., gloomy and misty; on 25th, 29th, and 30th a
good many seen. In October, one seen on 23rd chasing Gulls; on 8th,
one going S., gentle E.N.E. breeze; the latest notice on 11th, a few
chasing Gulls.

Petrel, _Procellaria pelagica_, Linn.--On Sept. 23rd, at Godrevy,
one struck, 9.30 p.m. (not killed), mod. S.S.E. breeze, clear. At
Morecambe, Nov. 22nd, a Stormy Petrel flying W., 2.30 p.m., mod. W.
gale. At St. Tudwal's, Jan. 8th, 1882, four Stormy Petrels rested under
lee of rocks, 3.30 p.m., mod. W. gale.

Razorbill, _Alca torda_, Linn.--From South Stack we hear Razorbills
left after breeding in the beginning of August, At St. Bees the
beginning of this year (1882), a bird was picked up dead on the shore,
which, from the description and a sketch made by Mr. Pizey, P.K., I
identified as a Razorbill.

Guillemot, _Lomvia troile_, Linn.--At South Stack they are mentioned in
same note as Razorbills as leaving in beginning of August. At Holyhead,
Sept. 1st, large flocks of Guillemots and Puffins, fresh N.E. breeze,
clear. At Milford, on same date, it is noted that "several during the
past week struck the lantern windows at night; they annually do so at
this time and no other." At Morecambe, Sept. 20th, a great number of
Divers (? Guillemots), with Gulls and Skuas, and so to 26th, when a few
Divers throughout the day. At Hartland Point diving birds were observed
near the shore in January, 1882. At Skerries Guillemots and Puffins are
reported as remaining nearly the year round. (But if not all the year,
when do they leave and when return? Could this be noticed for next
year's report?)

Puffin, _Fratercula arctica_, Linn.--At Holyhead, Sept. 1st, large
flocks with Guillemots. At Morecambe, Sept. 28th, small flocks of Gulls
and Puffins continuous, and, on Oct. 1st to 28rd, flocks with Gulls
seen in vicinity.

Birds unknown.--At Hartland Point, Oct. 27th, grey bird at midnight
struck the lantern, fresh E. breeze. At Bardsey Mr. Bowen says grey
birds, &c., are resident. Are Grey Crows meant? At Air, Oct. 29th,
flocks of birds unknown passed before daylight, mod. N.E. breeze.
At Scilly, Oct. 18th, a few migrants later part of the month. At
Morecambe, Oct. 20th, small flocks of small birds going E.S.E., 8.30
a.m., strong S.E. by E. breeze, clear, a little misty.


Additional Remarks.

Holyhead, Menai, and St. Bees are reported as unfavourable stations
for observation. From Bull Point Mr. Knott writes:--"Very few birds to
be seen. It is a north aspect; more to be seen with a south aspect."
And from Great Castle Head Mr. Spicer writes:--"This being an inland
lighthouse there is scarcely a bird to be seen for days, and then by
chance you might see some away in the fields."

Most of the stations report scarcity in comparison with other years,
as South Stack, Lundy, Caldy, Usk, Burnham, and Trevose Head; the
decrease appears to be ascribed to the mildness of the season. Whether
this be the real or the main cause of a like scarcity or not from the
following stations may be an open question; but I give the opinion
of the observers, and they do not speak of it as the record of this
year's observations alone, _viz._, Longships, from which Mr. Jones
writes:--"Very few cases of birds coming against our lantern since
(of late years) the light is red towards the shore." From Burnham
it is reported "Birds very rarely strike, the lantern glass being
only eight feet by four feet." And from Skerries report I extract
the following:--"There is a small quantity of birds in comparison
with years prior to introduction of fog-horn (see also Rep. 1880, p.
119). In thick and foggy weather during November and February great
quantities were always seen, chiefly Starlings, with Blackbirds,
Thrushes, Wheatears, Larks, &c. On one occasion I saw our lantern
gallery full, and at the base of the tower the quantity killed
necessitated the use next morning of the wheelbarrow to remove them to
the garden for manure. On one occasion a monster pie, made by workmen
employed here, contained two hundred Larks, besides other smaller
birds. But since the fog-horn has been sounded in thick weather birds
coming to the light have been few, though many seen and heard in the
air."--H. Knott.

From the same station Mr. Garret, P.K., writes:--"These birds (Sea
Swallows, which breed on the island) seem to take no notice of the
fog-horn, while others, such as Starlings, Blackbirds, Thrushes, Larks,
&c., keep off while the horn is sounding, so that very few are seen
round the lantern now, while formerly, in thick or misty weather during
February and November, the lantern-gallery would be full of birds; each
on striking would drop into the gallery and remain till daylight, when,
if not too much injured, they would fly; but with strong winds a great
number, chiefly Starlings, would be killed."

It is easy to believe that the hideous sound of a fog-horn, till
the birds get used to it, will keep them at a distance. That birds
recognise landmarks cannot, I think, be doubted, and possibly a
complete change in colour of a light they have grown accustomed to
may for a time make them suspicious of it. I think that if a light be
placed in a new, and not altogether unfavourable, situation, birds will
be attracted to it, because, though not yet accustomed to see it in
that spot, they will recognise it as a resting-place and sign of land.
From some light-keepers I have heard that years ago (the lighthouse
then not long erected) the slaughter among birds was much greater than
now. Of course the nature of the season would partly account for this,
but I think also that the unaccustomed light might attract many a weary
wanderer to an untimely death. That birds profit by experience cannot,
I think, be doubted, and I expect that the unrestrained destruction of
them along a particular route will gradually effect a change in their
ways. I believe that the scarcity now for some years generally noticed
may be due in a measure to the ruthless destruction met with at certain
points on the Continent in their line of annual flight.

Fresh instances are constantly occurring which show the relation
between the movements of birds and the state of the weather. In
connection with this point I quote the words of Mr. Nicholas, keeper at
Nash E., who writes:--"I've noticed whenever there is a lot of Gulls
and Crows inland, it indicates a gale. I first noticed this Oct. 13th;
on 14th there was a whole gale. I have since that date observed the
same thing before every gale."

The prevailing winds on this coast were:--From August to Sept. 17th,
easterly; thence, to Sept. 29th, gentle to mod. W.; thence, to Oct.
8th, E., _viz._, mod. S.E. and E. to 5th, then with more or less of N.
On and after 9th, W. till 14th, with touch of N. and strong; on 16th a
whole gale, E., thence, to 24th, S.E., strong breezes; after which, to
the end of the month, E. and N.E.

Birds have not been noticed in such large flocks as last year, and
there have been but faint traces of rushes. No rare birds are reported.

The most decided and general movement took place between Oct. 16th and
27th; after October, except among the Anatidæ, the occurrences being
very scarce. The chief occurrences in September were Wrens, Wagtails,
Swallows, and Finches; and in October Starlings, Sky Larks, and the
_Turdidæ_.

In the autumnal migration the difference in date of arrival, as
compared with last year, may be worth marking. So far as our records
show the Redwing was first noticed a month later, the Blackbird six
weeks, and Thrush three weeks, the Sky Lark a month, Goldcrest twelve
days, Wheatear and Greenfinch five days, the Golden Plover fourteen
days. The following are recorded earlier: the Meadow Pipit by two
weeks. Swallow seventeen days, Starling nineteen days, Wagtail,
Chaffinch, and Linnet a few days. Of the Anatidæ, Ducks are noticed a
few days earlier, Geese considerably later.

It is difficult to say anything positive as to direction of flight,
which is too seldom noted; in case of the Turdidæ scarcely at all.
This in part is owing to many of the instances occurring at night in
the dark. So far as I can make out all birds here follow the coast
line very clearly. The main direction, to judge from the scant records
in September, was southerly; in October one or two directly E.; the
rest E., with more or less of N. With a few marked exceptions the
movement has in almost every species been noticed at the southerly
stations first, and appears gradually to have extended N. Whether this
be accidental or a rule can only be decided by continued and careful
observations from all the stations. Of the _Anatidæ_ and water-birds
the most frequent records are in October, and the direction S.W. and
S., sometimes S.E.; but between Dec. 2nd to 11th, at Morecambe Bay,
they passed N.W. After 11th to end of December S.W.

The best filled returns have this year been received from Morecambe
Bay, Skerries, and Nash E. These observers have also given the fullest
information; Nash especially in showing the direction of flight, a
matter concerning which information is very desirable.

As to the circumstances under which the movement takes place, as
affecting the flight or the striking of birds, &c., the reports bear
out the conclusions previously expressed. Last year Mr. Bowen (Bardsey)
referred to flight of birds before the wind (Rep., p. 119); Mr. Knott
now writes from Skerries, "Many birds are killed in strong winds, as
they then fly with greater force, and almost invariably in the same
direction as the wind." Still the evidence shows that birds, as a rule,
migrate with the wind on the shoulder, and not strong. When they do fly
with the wind, and the wind strong, it is probably because they have
been taken by surprise, and are unable to save themselves.




IRISH COAST: AUTUMN.


Printed schedules were forwarded to forty light stations around the
coast. Thirty stations replied by returning the schedules wholly or
partially filled with daily entries, or by sending letters remarking on
the absence of migratory birds or on their general movements.

To the Commissioners of Irish Lights we are indebted for the facilities
afforded us in conducting this enquiry. We have to thank Captain Boxer,
R.N., Inspector of Irish Lights, for his friendly co-operation--his
knowledge of the coast and intimate acquaintance with the light
stations rendered his advice and assistance especially valuable.

On the whole the returns have been as satisfactory as was anticipated;
some of the schedules have been carefully filled, and although others
contain very few entries, this is to be accounted for rather by the
absence of migratory birds than by any unwillingness on the part of the
light-keepers to assist us. When we remember their many and various
duties, and that the observations are entirely voluntary, there is
reason to be well contented with the first attempt of this kind to
collect information on the Irish coast; and we return our sincere
thanks to all the lighthouse-keepers who have given their time and
attention to the subject.

The entries in all the schedules have been collected under each day of
the month as they occur; this method of arrangement shows the movements
of all birds as entered on each day, and the number of observations on
that day. The effect of the weather on the migratory movement can thus
be studied, and the general direction of flight of the various species
compared.

The daily weather-charts show last winter to have been exceptional
in the number and violence of the cyclonic disturbances, which moved
generally in a north-easterly direction along our west coasts; but
the entries in the schedules are too few to generalise or draw any
conclusions regarding the influence of the successive storms on the
migratory movement.

A table showing the days on which entries were made in the schedules
has been drawn up in, the hope that, if the extent of the migratory
movement on any particular day varied with the number of entries, some
inference could be drawn; but here also generalisation is premature.

In a few returns names are given to birds from which it is not easy
to identify the species, and occasionally there is reason to fear one
species has been mistaken for another. In all cases, however, the name
entered in the schedule has been allowed to stand without comment.

The general remarks of the light-keepers are given consecutively,
and as contributions to the Ornithology of the lighthouses they are
interesting.

A table showing the number of birds striking each lantern, the number
of daily entries in each return, the number of species of birds
mentioned in each schedule in the daily entries, the height of each
lantern above high-water mark, and its approximate distance from the
mainland is given.

Whatever results are obtained from this investigation, they will only
be arrived at by patiently collecting observations for some years.
If the light-keepers continue to assist us, this can readily be
done--without their co-operation annually we are helpless.

                                                 Alexander G. More.
                                                 Richard M. Barrington.


 Names of Stations to which Schedules were sent in the Autumn of 1881.

                                                     No. of   Height of
                                   Birds    No. of   species   lantern     Miles
  No. and name of light-station,  striking   daily     in       above      from
    and situation on coast.       lantern.  entries. entries.  sea-level.  shore.

   1. Fastnet, Co. Cork               9        10       5        148 ft.      8
   2. Galley Head, do.               --         6       4        174         --
   3. Old Head, Kinsale, do.          5         2       2        236         --
   4. Mine Head, Waterford           --         3       4        285         --
   5. Coningbeg Lt.-ship, Wexford     2         3       2         38         10
   6. Barrels Rock, do.               1        26      11          ?          4
   7. Tuskar, do.                   large
                                   numbers     12      18        101          7
   8. Arklow S. Lt.-ship, Wicklow    --        17       4         39          7
   9. Wicklow Head, do             No reply.
  10. Kish Bank Lt.-ship, Dublin     --        18       5         36          7
  11. Howth Baily, do.               --        12       6        134         --
  12. Rockabill, do.                 13         8      10        148          5
  13. Copeland Island, Down          --        18      24        131          3
  14. Maidens, Antrim              No reply.
  15. Rathlin, do.                   --        35      11        243          6
  16. Innishtrahull, Donegal          3         7      12        181          6
  17. Dunree Head, do.               --        --      --        150          1
  18. Lough Swilly, do.            No reply.
  19. Tory Island, do.               --         1       1        130          9
  20. Arranmore, do.                 --        16       2        233          5
  21. Rathlin O'Birne, do.            1        17       6        116          2
  22. Killybegs, do.               No reply.
  23. Oyster Island, N., Sligo       --        15       5         40          1
  24. Broadhaven, Mayo               --        18       3         87         --
  25. Eagle Island E., do.           --        --      --        220          2
  26. Eagle Island W., do.           --        --      --        220          2
  27. Blackrock, do.                Numbers    --      --        283          9
  28. Blacksod Point, do.           No reply.
  29. Clare Island, do.               --       17       7        341          4
  30. Slyne Head N., Galway           12       12       9        115          8
  31. Slyne Head S., do.               4        5       5        104          3
  32. Arran Island N., do.            --       17       4        115          9
  33. Straw Island, do.             No reply.
  34. Arran Island S., do.             6        7       6        110          6
  35. Loop Head, Clare              No reply.
  36. Samphire Island, Kerry           Do.
  37. Tearaght, do.                    Do.
  38. Valentia, do.                    --       --     --         54         --
  39. Skelligs, do.                    --       --     --        175          9
  40. Calf Rock, Cork               Destroyed in storm, Nov. 1881.


Table showing Date on which Entries were made in Schedules, with No. of
Station making same.

  Nos. and Names of Stations.

   1. Fastnet
   2. Galley Head
   3. Old Head, Kinsale
   4. Mine Head
   5. Coningbeg Lt.-ship
   6. Barrels Rock, do.
   7. Tuskar
   8. Arklow S. Lt.-ship.
  10. Kirk Bank, do.
  11. Howth Baily
  12. Rockabill
  13. Copeland Island
  15. Rathlin
  16. Innishtrahull
  17. Dunree Head
  19. Tory Island
  20. Arranmore
  21. Rathlin O'Birne
  23. Oyster Island N.
  24. Broadhaven
  25. Eagle Island E.
  26. Eagle Island W.
  27. Black Rock (Mayo)
  29. Clare Island
  30. Slyne Head N.
  31. Slyne Head S.
  32. Arran Island N.
  34. Arran Island S.
  38. Valentia
  39. Skelligs

  Day of
  Month.   September.          October.                     November.

    1st    15                   6,  8                       12, 21
    2nd    15, 31, 32           1, 10, 11, 13, 15, 23, 32   12, 15, 24, 34
    3rd     2,  8, 15, 29, 82   8, 10
    4th     8, 15                                           12, 15, 23, 24
    5th    29, 30               6, 8, 15, 31                 7, 10
    6th                         1, 29                        6, 10, 24
    7th     8, 11, 15, 32      30                            6, 15, 32
    8th     6,  8, 32           6, 13, 23                   10, 16
    9th     6,  8               6                           11
   10th    10, 13, 15, 29, 34  11, 12, 13, 15, 19, 23       15, 29, 30
   11th     6, 10               1, 16                       23
   12th     7, 29, 30, 32       6, 10, 11, 16, 21, 23, 32   15, 30
   13th     8, 32               6, 32                       10
   14th     2,  8, 3           21, 32
   15th     8, 11, 13, 21      20, 24                       13, 29
   16th     6,  8, 13          15, 21, 32                   11, 15
   17th    13, 23              15                           15
   18th     6,  7, 16,  8       6, 12, 20                    5, 10, 13, 23
   19th     7,  8               6, 31, 32                   21
   20th    23, 29, 30           6, 11, 15, 29, 82            2,  5, 17, 30
   21st     6,  7, 13, 21       6, 13, 21, 34                5
   22nd     8, 13, 31          31                           34
   23rd     8, 11, 21           7, 16, 23                    6, 15
   24th    21                   3,  6,  7, 21
   25th     1,  8               6,  7, 23, 29, 30, 32, 34    7, 29
   26th     6, 29, 34           1,  7, 15, 21, 29            6, 16
   27th     8                   6,  7, 12, 15, 32           15, 16, 29
   28th     8, 13               6,  7, 10, 12, 32           21, 23
   29th     1, 15                                            2
   30th     7, 11, 18           11, 30                      30
   31st                         34

  Day of
  Month.   December.            January.

    1st    15, 21, 24, 80       10
    2nd    24
    3rd     2, 4                 1, 13, 24
    4th     6, 21, 29
    5th                          1
    6th     21                  21
    7th     15                   1
    8th     24                   1, 10, 24
    9th                         24
   10th     10, 15, 24, 29, 31
   11th      4, 28, 30
   12th      3,  4, 15, 24      21, 24
   13th     23
   14th                         11
   15th     15
   16th                          7
   17th      2, 13
   18th     15, 24
   19th
   20th
   21st       15
   22nd
   23rd
   24th      13, 15, 24
   25th      24
   26th
   27th      10, 29
   28th      13, 15
   29th      24
   30th      24
   31st


General Remarks of Light-Keepers.

1. _Fastnet._--"Very few birds came on or passed the rock this winter.
It must be in consequence of bad weather on this coast. No sea birds
build nests near this station."--John Tottenham.

2. _Galley Head._--"This is one of the worst stations I have been at
for birds; in fact we think it rare to see any only those that are
natives of the place. This year they are very scarce. The Starling has
not come down to us from the mountains yet."--John Whelan.

3. _Old Head, Kinsale._--"No birds, only the above (_i. e._, five
Golden-crested Wrens on Oct. 24th, and several flocks of Lapwings
on Dec. 12th) have appeared in the vicinity this season. The Gannet
usually proceeds to the eastward in August and September, and flies
westward from January to March. The Guillemots, Razorbills, Cormorants,
Kittiwake, and Herring Gulls all arrive here to breed in March, and
depart in August and September."--John Dunleary.

4. _Mine Head._--"Birds of all descriptions were not so scarce at this
station for the last seven years as during the year 1881."--Joseph
Hammond.

5. _Coningbeg Light-ship._--"There were no birds about the station in
the month of December, or up to the 20th of January, with the exception
of a few Sea Gulls each day."--Patrick Cullen.

6. _Barrels Rock Light-ship._--General remarks none, but a full
schedule of daily entries.--Joseph Oxford.

7. _Tuskar._--General remarks, none. A full schedule.--Richard Hamilton.

8. _Arklow, South, Light-ship._--General remarks, none. A full
schedule.--William Shea.

9. _Wicklow Head._--No reply.

10. _Kish Bank Light-ship._--"Less birds passed the station this winter
than ever. No birds have been killed by striking our lantern for some
years."--William Daly.

11. _Howth Baily._--General remarks, none.--Joseph Brownell.

12. _Rockabill._--"Sept. 1st. Received schedule; a great number of
different species of Gulls in vicinity of Rock, and on smaller rock
called the Bill, from about the second week in August to the third
week in September, when they almost entirely disappeared. Cannot name
the species; there were also Puffins, and occasionally two or three
Gannets. This is an annual occurrence, but not always at the same time.
Birds have been unusually scarce this season. Since stormy weather set
in early in November no birds have been about the Rock, except a few
Sand Larks, and a few Gulls, Puffins, and Cormorants flying about this
and the smaller rock during a storm."--William Dunne.

13. _Copeland Island._--"There were no birds struck the light this
winter owing to the strong gales which prevailed."--Henry Williams.

14. _The Maidens._--No reply.

15. _Rathlin Island._--A second schedule partly filled. Remark:--"The
Sea Parrot begins to arrive for the purpose of cleaning out its nest
on March 17th, and then goes away until the 1st of April, when the
different species of sea birds commence to arrive for the season. They
begin to go away about 1st of August, and finally disappear by the end
of the month."--John A. Murray.

16. _Innishtrahull._--"September, Gannet daily, 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Curlew
daily. The 'Grey' Gull, 'Little' Gull, Black-backed or Royal Gull,
Common Gull, and Grey Crow remain on the island all the year. Gulls
nidify on the rock called Torr near the island; Grey Crows nidify on
the island. In November flocks of twelve to twenty Starlings daily.
Owing to this winter being very stormy little birds of any sort visited
the island. During the months of January and February, 1881, a great
number of Woodcock and Snipe were killed here."--W. H. James.

17. _Dunree Head._--Daily entry, none. Remark:--"I beg to state
there are no migrations of birds to be seen at this station, except
Cormorants; they remain the year, round, also a small number of Sea
Gulls. No other birds resort or pass this station."--John Stapleton.

18. _Lough Swilly._--No reply.

19. _Tory Island._--"The Petrel, Raven, Common Sandpiper, Common
Guillemot, Black Guillemot, Razorbill, Diver, Puffin, Cormorant,
Kittiwake, Common Gull, Herring Gull breed on the east end of the
island, and are annually decreasing. Breed in larger numbers on Horn
Head. Have not observed birds migrating. No birds struck the lantern
this winter. Have not observed the Gannet or other sea birds taking a
continuous flight."--Thomas Sweeney.

20. _Arranmore._--"Barnacle Geese generally commence to come from
the north on the 15th or 16th of October in flocks averaging four
to eighty, that being the most counted in one flock. They pass at
intervals of from two to twelve hours both day and night until the end
of the month, when they cease. They commence to appear again on the
10th or 12th of April, coming from south, but in larger flocks and
shorter intervals. No other species but Gannet and Barnacle resort this
locality."--John Walsh.

21. _Rathlin O'Birne._--"Sky Larks, Titlarks, and Stonechats continued
arriving in numbers of two, four, and six until about the 10th of May.
At that time there were about twenty of each species on the island.
They nidificated on the island. By the 10th of September the Sky
Larks had departed; by the 20th of October the Titlarks had departed;
by the 16th of November the Stonechats had departed. None of these
species were observed after that date until Dec. 22nd, when five or
six Titlarks returned, and are here still. On June the 3rd twelve to
fourteen Common Terns alighted on a small island outside lighthouse,
nidificated, and left about Aug. 1st. Sea Gulls nidificated on small
island above referred to, and one pair of 'sepoys' on this island. In
July several pairs of Skua Gulls passed, and some remained in vicinity.
Curlew frequent this island from 1st of May until 1st of October. They
come at night time, and leave the following day generally. Unless with
frosty and snowy weather, Starlings, Snipes, Woodcocks, Blackbirds,
or Thrushes do not visit. Sandpipers and Jack Curlew are about the
shores all the year round. No Gannets seen since Nov. 8th. Sea Gulls
in vicinity all the year. Barnacle continue coming and departing
until about Feb. 15th. No Starling or Snipe visited since last
winter."--Joseph Hill.

22. _Killybegs._--No reply.

23. _Oyster Island, North._--"From the middle of October to the last
week in November several large flocks of Gulls were to be seen in the
bay after herrings, principally of the Kittiwake species, with a few
large Grey Gulls and an occasional Royal or Black-backed Gull; also
large flocks of Puffins, which all left when the herrings disappeared.
Large flocks of Barnacle and Wigeon arrive in this locality early in
October, and remain until latter end of March, passing to and fro
to feeding-ground according to tide, besides those going further
south."--John Young.

24. _Broadhaven._--"The above (_i.e._, Barnacle, Wild Geese, Wild
Duck, and Solan Geese) are the only description of birds seen in the
locality; they are generally passing inland, and at times alight near
the lighthouse to feed on the swampy land. No Sea Gulls build near this
station, but a few come into the harbour in the summer months after the
fry of fish."--Joseph Williams.

25. _Eagle Island, East._--No entry in schedule. Remark:--"Up to the
present no birds are visible, only on occasions when fish are seen on
the surface of the water, and these are Gannets and large-sized Gulls.
I have not noticed any kind of birds pass or rest at this station in
their flight of migration."--Robert Redmond.

26. _Eagle Island, West._--No entry in schedule. Remark:--"This island
is very small, and the adjacent shores being all bog for miles inland
very few birds alight on island. The Stonechatter is to be seen here
all the year round. In May the sea-fowl come round the island in great
numbers; as a rule they go gradually to the south, following shoals
of fish, and very few are to be seen during the winter months. To-day
(Jan. 15th, 1882) I have seen a few Gannets and Sea Gulls flying about.
No birds have struck the lantern since my arrival at this station
eighteen months since."--Mathew Healy.

27. _Black Rock (Mayo)._--No daily entry, but schedule filled by
following general remarks:--"Gannets seen passing south all the year
round, most seen in calm weather, ten to twenty in each flight. Puffins
from April 15th to Aug. 15th; build on the Rock. Cormorants here all
the year round; build on the Rock. Kittiwake Gulls build on an island
three miles away; also Royal Gulls. Small Gulls, commonly called
'Wheelons,' build on the Rock. Barnacles here from October to March.
Two 'Falcon Hawks' build on an island three miles away; here all the
year round. Two 'Sparrowhawks' seen in the mornings. Rooks, in flocks
of 100 to 500, mostly seen in snow and frosty weather. Starlings from
September to March, morning and evening, 1000 to 5000 in a flock, seen
with all winds, mostly in frosty weather; hundreds killed against
lantern. 'Missel Thrushes' from November to March, 50 to 100 in each
flock, most in frosty weather; seen at all hours; a large number
killed. Snipe from November to March in flocks of two to four, in frost
and snow; some killed. Woodcocks from November to March in frost and
snow; some killed. Curlews, twenty to thirty in a flock, from daylight
till dark; seen all the year round. Wrens seen very seldom in the
spring. Blackbirds only seen in frosty weather; some killed by striking
lantern. 'Titmouses' seen in all weathers; build on the Rock. Stormy
Petrels from March to September, at all hours of the night; build on
the Rock. Larks in flocks of 100 to 300, only seen in frosty weather; a
large number killed by striking glass. I have seen some strange birds
rest here on their passage to the mainland, but do not know their
names. I have seen a Hoopoe on one occasion rest here. There has been
a species of Sea Gull of a deep cream-colour on the coast last August,
supposed to be a North American bird. I have seen large flights of
Rooks rest here after coming in from the sea in a S.W. direction, which
seemed so much fatigued that they would fall over after resting, and
remain to be caught."--Martin Kennedy.

28. _Blacksod Point._--No reply.

29. _Clare Island._--"The following varieties of birds build their
nests round the cliffs here; they come on the 1st of April and
leave about the 20th of August:--Guillemots, Razorbills, Puffins,
Kittiwakes."--James Reilly.

30. _Slyne Head (North)._--"The 'Purr' is the only sea-bird that
breeds near this station. They arrive in April and depart in August.
The arrival of birds to this island during the past autumn and winter
was very few in comparison with other years, and the only reason I can
assign for it is that we had very little snow. During the snow of 1880
we had large flocks of Starlings, Thrushes, and Blackbirds arriving
daily from the east."--John Gillan.

31. _Slyne Head (South)._--No general remarks. Schedule partly
filled.--William Callaghan.

32. _Arran Island, North._--"The only birds seen in the vicinity of
this station since July are the Gannet, the Royal or Black-backed Gull,
and the Common Gull. They do not breed on this island, as it is low and
flat. The Gulls breed on the cliffs of the large island of Arran and
cliffs of the Co. Clare. Do not know dates of arrival or departure.
The Gannets and Gulls that visit this station come from the direction
of the Co. Clare, remain during the day, and return in the evening. No
flocks seen after Nov. 7th."--John Kelly.

33. _Straw Island._--No reply.

34. _Arran Island, South._--"Have never known less birds strike the
lantern."--Francis Ryan.

35. _Loop Head._--No reply.

36. _Samphire Island._--No reply.

37. _Tearaght._--No reply.

38. _Valentia._--"I have been at this station 4-1/2 years, and have
never seen any birds migrating or resorting this locality except
sea-birds, such as Gannet, Puffin, Cormorants, &c. They are not very
numerous, and seldom visit except from August to the end of October.
Very few land-birds visit here, except in severe frosts and snow in
winter; then the Starling, Thrush, Blackbird, Lark, &c., come down
from the mountains. Hundreds of Starlings, Thrushes, and Curlews died
last January in this locality by severe frost and snow. There are not
any birds strike this lantern. Very few strike land-lights, but on the
South Maiden lighthouse I have seen hundreds of Starlings, Thrushes,
and Blackbirds strike and kill themselves in one night, and frequently
Snipe and Woodcock. On the Tuskar Rock lighthouse I have counted twelve
hundred killed in one night, and hundreds more fell into the sea that
we did not get. At Rockabill lighthouse also I have got great numbers
killed, and frequently four and six Teal or small duck, and Snipe and
Woodcock. I have not seen since I came to this station one Wild Duck or
Goose, nor any flock of migrating birds. I have kept a good look-out
for the last two months, and have not seen any birds except a few
Gannets and Sea Gulls."--Thomas McKenna.

39. _Skelligs._--No entry in schedule. Remark:--"The only birds
observed at present in this locality are a few Gannets and Sea Gulls
occasionally."--Henry Gardiner.

40. _Calf Rock._ No reply. Destroyed by storm in Nov., 1881.




Daily Entries in Schedules, Sept., 1881, to Jan., 1882.


SEPTEMBER.

1_st._--Rathlin Island, eighty Swallows, 10 a.m., wind light S.E.,
clear; hovered about. Twenty-six Gannets, 11.30 a.m., going E.

2_nd._--Rathlin Island, eight Gannets, 5.30 a.m., wind light E., clear,
going E. Slyne Head South, continuous flocks of Gannets, 5 a.m. to
6 p.m., wind light S.E., clear, came from S.W.; remained for three
months. Arran Island North, about 200 Gulls, 5 a.m. to 6 p.m., wind
N.E., calm, clear.

3_rd._--Galley Head, Teal Duck, number not known, 1 a.m., flying N.E.,
wind N.E. fresh breeze, clear. Arklow South Lt.-ship, nine Gannets,
8.15 a.m., wind light E.N.E., gloomy, passing N.E. Rathlin Island, 200
Starlings, 10.25 a.m., wind light S.E., cloudy, old birds remained on
island. Clare Island, large flock of Grey Linnets, 6 a.m., wind light
E., clear, going S.E. Arran Island North, 200 Gulls different species
all day, wind light S.E.

4_th._--Arklow South Lt.-ship, two Gannets, 1.10 p.m., wind light
E.N.E., cloudy, passing N.E. Rathlin Island, seven Gannets, 12 noon,
wind strong N.E., misty, going E.

5_th._--Clare Island, large flock of Grey Linnets, 7 a.m., wind fresh
E.N.E., blue sky, going S. Slyne Head North, fifty Starlings, 10 p.m.,
wind fresh E., misty, three killed.

6_th._--No entry.

7_th._--Arklow South Lt.-ship, four Starlings, 10.15 a.m., wind light
W., cloudy, passing inland N.W. Howth Daily, six Cormorants flying N.,
11 a.m., wind light W., clear. Rathlin Island, forty Linnets, 11 a.m.,
wind light N.E., cloudy, going N. Arran Island North, twenty to thirty
Gannets, 5 p.m., wind light N.W.

8_th._--Barrels Rock Lt.-ship, five Gannets, 5.10 a.m., wind light
N.N.W., clear, going W.; four Gannets at 3 p.m., going W. Arklow South
Lt.-ship, four Gannets, 7 a.m., wind very light N.W., clear, passing
N.E.; three Gannets, 9.50 a.m., going same direction. Arran Island
North, thirty to forty Gannets all day, wind light N.W.

9_th._--Barrels Rock Lt.-ship, flocks of Linnets and Gulls, 12.50 p.m.
to 3.50 p.m., wind light N.N.E., showery; Linnets going N.E., Gulls
W. Arklow South Lt.-ship, five Gannets, 5.15 a.m., wind fresh N.N.E.,
cloudy, going N.; four Gannets, 11.45 a.m., going N.E.

10_th._--Kish Bank Lt.-ship, two Chaffinches, 7 a.m., wind mod. N.E.,
gloomy. Copeland Island, four Herons, 10 a.m., wind N.E., clear, coming
S.; Starlings all day, breed here; Terns breed on Mew Island, come in
May. Rathlin Island, one Curlew, 9.30 a.m., wind light S.E., rain.
Clare Island, small flocks of Rooks, 2 p.m., wind light N., fine, going
N.W. Arran Island South, thirty Starlings, 3.30 p.m., wind light N.E.,
clear, old birds going E.

11_th._--Barrels Rock Lt.-ship, flock of "grey" Gulls, 5.25 a.m.,
wind light E.N.E., clear, going E. Kish Bank Lt.-ship, one Chaffinch
alighted on ship, 11.15 a.m., wind light N., hazy.

12_th._--Tuskar, thirty Wrens, Titmice, and Goldcrests, 6 a.m., wind
light N.E., overcast, gloomy. Clare Island, flock of Grey Linnets, 7
a.m., wind fresh E., cloudy, going S.E. Slyne Head North, ten Swallows,
9 a.m., wind light N., clear; a large number of Gannets, 1 p.m. Arran
Island North, large flocks of Gulls, wind fresh N.E., clear; also on
Sept. 13th.

13_th._--Arklow South Lt.-ship, four Gannets, 7.45 a.m., wind very
light N.W., gloomy, going N.E.

14_th._--Galley Head, Duck, number not known, 3 a.m., wind W. strong
breeze, clear, flying W. Arklow South Lt.-ship, two Gannets, 6 a.m.,
wind light N.E., cloudy, going N.E.; five Gannets, 8.25 a.m., going in
same direction; three Titlarks, 8.40 a.m., passing inland N.W. Copeland
Island, thirteen Herring Gulls, 4 p.m., wind light N., clear; also six
Gannets; both after fry and fish.

15_th._--Arklow South Lt.-ship, one flock of Titlarks, 7.40 a.m., wind
light N.N.E., clear, passing N.W.; five Gannets, 8 a.m., passing N.E.
Howth Baily, continuous flocks of Gulls and Puffins flying N. and S.,
8 a.m. to 6 p.m., wind light N.W., clear. Copeland Island, fifteen
Lapwings, remained all day between Mew and Copeland Islands. Rathlin
Island, forty Black Crows, 2 p.m., wind very strong S.W., cloudy, going
S.

16_th._--Barrels Rock Lt.-ship, about thirty Swallows, 11 a.m., wind
very light E.N.E., clear, going N.E. Arklow South Lt.-ship, six
Gannets, 7.30 a.m., wind light N.E., cloudy, passing N.E. Copeland
Island, twenty-three Gannets, 4 p.m., wind light S.E., clear, coming
from Ailsa Craig.

17_th._--Copeland Island, fourteen Grey Linnets, 3 p.m., wind light
S.S.W., rain, remained some time. Oyster Island North, twenty Wigeon
going S.E., 11 a.m., wind mod. S.E., clear.

18_th._--Barrels Rock Lt.-ship, flock of Grey Gulls, 5.10 p.m., wind
very light N.N.E., clear, going W. Tuskar, one Owl, 8 a.m., wind light
N., cloudy. Arklow South Lt.-ship, one flock of Swallows, 6.20 a.m.,
wind fresh N.E., gloomy, passing N.N.W. Innishtrahull, four Lapwings,
12 noon, wind light N., clear.

19_th._--Tuskar, about 1000 Gulls alighted 6 a.m., left 7 a.m., wind
light S.W., cloudy, gloomy, appeared young; 12.30 p.m., a large flock
of Gulls going S. Arklow South Lt.-ship, five Gannets, 8 a.m., wind
light W.S.W., cloudy, passing N.E.; four Swallows, 9.20 a.m., passing
N.W.

20_th._--Oyster Island North, about 100 Barnacles, 9.30 a.m., wind
strong S., clear, going S. Clare Island, large flock of Wild Ducks, 2
p.m., wind strong W., overcast, rain, going E. Slyne Head North, one
Snipe, 3 a.m., wind fresh S., showers, killed.

21_st._--Barrels Rock Lt.-ship, flock of "grey" Gulls, 9.30 a.m., wind
light W.N.W., showery, going N. Tuskar, a large flock of Skua Gulls
alighted 5 a.m., wind light N., overcast, rain, appeared old birds.
Copeland Island, one young Corn Crake, wind strong E.S.E., "reared on
Copeland Island." Rathlin O'Birne, about fifteen Gannets, 10 a.m., wind
strong N., rain, remained in vicinity until Oct. 14th.

22_nd._--Arklow South Lt.-ship, one flock of Swallows, 7.15 a.m., wind
very light N.W., clear, passing S.W. Copeland Island, Sept. 22nd to
26th, between these dates Terns which come to breed on Mew Island all
left. Slyne Head South, nine Curlews flew to N.E., wind fresh W.S.W.,
gloomy.

23_rd._--Arklow South Lt.-ship, one flock of Swallows, 6 a.m., wind
very light E., gloomy, passing N.W. Howth Baily, eight Gannets flying
S., 12.30 p.m., wind fresh S., clear. Rathlin O'Birne, continuous
flocks of Puffins, 10 a.m., wind light S.E., overcast, went southwards,
continued passing until Oct. 1st.

24_th._--Rathlin O'Birne, continuous flocks of Sea Gulls arrived 10
a.m., wind light S.E., overcast, came from N., remained in vicinity.

25_th._--Fastnet, small flocks of Starlings flying N.E. to land, 2
p.m., wind light W., passing showers, two young ones struck lantern.
Arklow South Lt.-ship, nine Gannets, 7 to 7.30 a.m., wind light W.,
clear, passing N.E.; six Swallows, 9.15 a.m., passing N.W.

26_th._--Barrels Rock Lt.-ship, flocks of Grey Gulls, 3.10 p.m., wind
light W.N.W., clear, going S. Clare Island, large flock of Puffins, 3
p.m., wind fresh S.S.W., cloudy, going W. Arran Island South, fifty
Starlings, 8.15 a.m., wind fresh W.N.W., clear.

27_th._--Arklow South Lt.-ship, four Gannets, 8 a.m., wind light
W.S.W., cloudy, passing S.W.

28_th._--Arklow South Lt.-ship, ten Gannets, 6.45 a.m., wind very light
S.W., cloudy, passing N.E. Copeland Island, thirteen Black Crows, 10
a.m., wind light S.W., fine, going W.

29_th._--Fastnet, two "Stone Chatters," 4 p.m., wind light S., misty,
on rock all night, left in morning. Rathlin Island, thirty Gannets, 3
p.m., wind light S.E., clear, going N.

30_th._--Tuskar, four Blackbirds, 10 a.m., wind fresh S., misty. Howth
Baily, ten Cormorants flying W., 1.20 p.m., wind fresh S.W., gloomy.
Oyster Island North, about eighty Barnacles, 4.30 p.m., wind mod.
E.S.E., clear, going S.

OCTOBER.

1_st._--Barrels Rock Lt.-ship, flock of twenty-six Swallows, 9.15 a.m.,
wind light S.S.W., clear, going S. Arklow South Lt.-ship, six Gannets,
7.20 a.m., wind light S., gloomy, passing S.W.

2_nd._--Fastnet, one "Stone Chatter," 3 p.m., wind light S. Kish Bank
Lt.-ship, three Gannets, 10 a.m., wind mod. S., clear. Howth Baily,
continuous flocks of Gulls and Puffins flying S., 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.,
wind light S.W., clear. Copeland Island, twenty-nine Ducks on Mew
Island all day, remained all the winter. Rathlin Island, sixty Black
Crows, 5 p.m., wind strong S.E., misty, coming from N., seemed tired.
Oyster Island North, about 150 Barnacles, 2 p.m., wind fresh S.E.,
clear, going S. Arran Island North, large flocks of Gannets and Gulls
all day, wind fresh S.S.E., clear.

3_rd._--Arklow South Lt.-ship, nineteen Gannets, 4.30 p.m., wind very
light S.S.E., cloudy, passing S.W. Kish Bank Lt.-ship, five Wild Ducks,
10.30 a.m., flying W., clear.

4_th._--No entry.

5_th._--Barrels Rock Lt.-ship, flock of White Gulls, 5 p.m., wind
light W.N.W., clear, going S.E. Arklow South Lt.-ship, three Gannets,
10.15 a.m., wind light E., cloudy, passing S.W. Rathlin Island, forty
Gannets, 3 p.m., wind light S.E., clear, going E. Slyne Head South,
many flocks of Gannets from sunrise to sunset, wind very strong S.E.,
gloomy.

6_th._--Fastnet, one "Stone Chatter," 3.30 p.m., wind light S.E.,
gloomy. Clare Island, small flock of Pigeons, 1 p.m., wind fresh W.,
cloudy, going N.

7_th._--Slyne Head North, a large number of Gulls going S., 4 p.m.,
wind light W., misty.

8_th._--Barrels Rock Lt.-ship, flock of nine Gannets, 8 a.m., wind
light N.N.W., clear, going W.; flock of about seventeen Swallows, 2.30
p.m., wind light E., rain, going S. Copeland Island, five Black-backed
Gulls all day, remained during winter. Oyster Island North, seventy
Barnacles, 11 a.m., wind strong N.W., overcast, showery, going S.;
fifty Rooks, 2 p.m., wind same, going S.E.

9_th._--Barrels Rock Lt.-ship, eight Gannets, 3.30 p.m., wind fresh
N.N.W., showery, going E.

10_th._--Howth Baily, ten Grey Crows flying inland, 11.15 a.m., wind
strong W., clear. Rockabill, one Blackbird, 9 a.m., wind fresh S.W.,
clear, showery, male seen on the rock. Copeland Island, one Swallow,
10.30 a.m., wind light S.E., fog; twelve Greenfinches, 11 a.m.,
remained until fog cleared. Rathlin Island, sixty Linnets, 11 a.m.,
wind strong N.W., misty, going N. Tory Island, Barnacle, 10 a.m., wind
mod. S.W., cloudy, coming from the east, flew round the island; they
frequent other islands near, but seldom alight on this island. Oyster
Island North, several flocks of Barnacles, 9 a.m. to 2 p.m., wind
strong N.W. to W., showery, going S.

11_th._--Fastnet, small flocks of land-birds, 8 a.m., wind fresh N.W.,
showers; two Titmice killed, flying S. on rock; four Chaffinches, 11
a.m., two killed, male birds. Innishtrahull, flocks of Barnacles, 8
a.m. to 6 p.m., wind strong N.W., hail-showers.


12_th._--Barrels Rock Lt.-ship, two Stormy Petrels, 12.30 p.m., wind
strong W.N.W., cloudy; seldom seen at this station; remained about the
ship all evening. Kish Bank Lt.-ship, two flocks of Ducks, 10.30 a.m.,
strong S.W. breeze, clear. Howth Baily, three Gannets flying N.E.,
10.45 a.m., wind fresh W., clear. Innishtrahull, one Teal, 9 p.m., wind
N.W., a hurricane, struck lantern. Rathlin O'Birne, four Barnacles,
11 p.m., wind very strong N.W., showery. Oyster Island North, 100
Barnacles, 2.30 p.m., wind N.W., wild and showery. Arran Island North,
large flocks of Gannets and Gulls all day, wind very strong N.W., rain.

13_th._--Barrels Rock Lt.-ship, two Sparrowhawks, 9.30 a.m., wind light
N.N.E., clear, going N.; seldom seen at this station. Arran Island
North, large flocks of Gulls all day, wind very strong N.N.W., rain.

14_th._--Rathlin O'Birne, one Martin killed against lantern, wind
very strong N. Arran Island North, large flocks of different species
of Gulls all day, wind very strong N.W., rain; flock of Wild Geese, 8
p.m., came from S.W., going N.

15_th._--Arranmore, continuous flocks of Barnacles, 6 a.m. to 6 p.m.,
each flock numbering four to eighty, commenced to come from the north
on this date, wind strong N. Broadhaven, ten Wild Ducks, 8.30 a.m.,
wind strong S.W., rain.

16_th._--Rathlin Island, sixty Gannets, 3 p.m., wind fresh N.W.,
cloudy, going W. Rathlin O'Birne, twenty Barnacles, 3 p.m., wind strong
S., overcast. Arran Island North, flock of Gannets and Gulls, 4 p.m.,
wind fresh S., clear.

17_th._--Rathlin Island, 100 Skua Gulls, 2 p.m., wind fresh S.W.,
cloudy.

18_th._--Barrels Rock Lt.-ship, large numbers of Gulls, 10 a.m. to 5
p.m., wind strong S.S.E., clear, apparently feeding about the ship.
Rockabill, Oct. 18th to 26th, twelve Redbreasts, seven Common Wrens,
and about fifteen young Starlings seen on the rock. Arranmore, flocks
of Gannets from two to twenty began to come from the south, going
north, on this date, and continue to the end of the month at intervals
of fifteen to twenty minutes during daytime; cannot be seen or heard
during night.

19_th._--Barrels Rock Lt.-ship, small flocks of Starlings, 9.30 a.m.
to noon, wind high S.E., cloudy, trying to get to S.E., driven towards
shore by the force of the wind; two Stormy Petrels, 11 a.m. to dusk,
wind high S.E., remained at ship all day. Slyne Head South, one Snipe,
3 a.m., very stormy, showery, killed. Arran Island North, large flock
of Gulls all day, very stormy wind S.E.

20_th._--Barrels Rock Lt.-ship, large flocks of Larks, 10 a.m., wind
very strong E.S.E., clear, going N. Howth Baily, flocks of Gulls flying
in all directions during the day, wind strong S.E., gloomy. Rathlin
Island, fifty Plovers, 1 p.m., wind high, stormy, remained on island;
forty White-backed Crows, always on island. Clare Island, large flock
of Gannets, 9 a.m., wind strong E., going N.W. Arran Island North,
large flock of Gulls all day, wind very strong S.E., gloomy.

21_st._--Barrels Rock Lt.-ship, continuous flocks of Larks and Linnets,
10 to 11.30 a.m., wind strong E.S.E., overcast, going to E.N.E.
Copeland Island, flock of Teal on Mew Island, 11 a.m., wind E., stormy,
rain; stay here for winter. Rathlin O'Birne, four Barnacles, 3.30 p.m.,
wind strong E.S.E., overcast; thirty Gannets, 8.30 a.m. Arran Island
South, six Golden-crested Wrens struck lantern, wind E., hazy, not
killed; flew away at daylight.

22_nd._--Slyne Head South, one Woodcock, 1 a.m., wind very stormy
S.S.E., killed, the only one got for three years; two Thrushes also
killed.

23_rd._--Tuskar, one flock of Starlings, 5 p.m., wind strong E.S.E.,
cloudy; another 11 p.m., very stormy E.S.E. wind, overcast, striking
about one hour, forty killed. Innishtrahull, one Blackbird, 10 p.m.,
wind S.E., a hurricane, struck lantern; one Thrush, 10.30 p.m., struck
lantern. Oyster Island North, several flocks of Barnacles, 10 a.m. to 1
p.m., wind fresh E.S.E., cloudy, twenty to fifty in each flock.

24_th._--Old Head, Kinsale, five Golden-crested Wrens, 9.30 p.m., wind
light S.W., hazy, struck lantern, none killed; the only ones seen this
season. Barrels Rock Lt.-ship, flock of Linnets, 5 p.m., wind strong
S.E., cloudy, going N.E. Tuskar, Blackbirds, Thrushes, and Larks, 10.30
p.m., wind E., stormy, overcast, striking until 3 a.m., many of each
killed. Rathlin O'Birne, seven Barnacles, 4 p.m., wind strong E.

25_th._--Barrels Rock Lt.-ship, continuous flocks of Starlings, 9.30
to 11.30 p.m., wind fresh S.E., one killed (young bird); too dark to
notice direction of flight. Tuskar, Starlings and Larks, 11 p.m., wind
strong E.N.E., overcast, striking for one hour, fifteen Larks and
twelve Starlings killed. Oyster Island North, thirty Rooks, 2 p.m.,
wind mod. E., cloudy. Clare Island, large flock of Rooks, 10 a.m., wind
fresh E., fine, going N.E. Slyne Head North, two Thrushes, 2 a.m., wind
mod. E., gloomy, killed. Arran Island North, large flock of Gulls all
day, wind fresh E.S.E., gloomy. Arran Island South, two Ducks, 3.15
p.m., wind fresh E., clear, going E.

26_th._--Fastnet, small flocks land-birds, 8 a.m., wind fresh E.,
gloomy; three Titmice killed, flying S. Tuskar, Starlings, 8 p.m., wind
strong E.N.E., overcast, twelve struck, four killed (young birds);
Thrushes at midnight, wind same, five struck, one killed (young bird).
Rathlin Island, continuous flocks of Gannets, 6 a.m. to 5 p.m., wind
fresh E., overcast, going E. Rathlin O'Birne, continuous flocks of Sea
Gulls, 9 a.m., wind light E.S.E., overcast. Clare Island, continuous
flocks of Puffins all day, wind fresh E.N.E., blue sky, cloudy, going
N.W.

27_th._--Barrels Rock Lt.-ship, continuous flocks of Linnets, 9 to
10.30 a.m., wind fresh E., gloomy, going N.E. Tuskar, "Grey-breasted
Blackbird," 7 p.m., wind strong E.N.E., overcast, struck and killed;
Starlings from 9 p.m. to 3 a.m., wind fresh E. to N.E., overcast,
striking constantly, five killed; Blackbirds and "Fieldfares or
Mountain Thrushes" striking occasionally between same hours, seven
Blackbirds and fifteen Fieldfares killed; many of these birds will
die on rock, being too exhausted to leave, particularly Starlings.
Rockabill, six Larks, three young Starlings, and one female Blackbird
killed in night, wind E., stormy, very dark, Starlings much wasted.
Rathlin Island, thirty Linnets, 12 noon, wind fresh S.E., overcast,
remained on island. Arran Island North, thirty Gulls different species
all day, wind light S.E., gloomy.

28_th._--Barrels Rock Lt.-ship, continuous flocks of Starlings, 8.30
to 11 p.m., wind fresh N., cloudy, apparently going E. Tuskar, one
Golden-crested Wren, 8 p.m., wind fresh N., overcast, gloomy, killed;
Fieldfares, 10.30 p.m., three killed; also one Green Linnet. Kish
Bank Lt.-ship, a flock of Ducks, 1.30 p.m., wind mod. N.W., clear.
Rockabill, one Golden-crested Wren and two young female Blackbirds,
killed in night, clear, showery; the first Goldcrest I ever saw at this
station. Arran Island North, twenty Gannets, 2 to 4 p.m., wind light
N.E., gloomy.

29_th._--No entry.

30_th._--Howth Baily, six Pigeons flying inland, 2.15 p.m., wind light
N.E., clear. Slyne Head North, continuous flocks of Gulls and Gannets
going S., 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., wind light S.E., clear.

31_st._--Arran Island South, seventeen Barnacles, 11.30 a.m., wind very
strong S.E., rain, going E.

NOVEMBER.

1_st._--Rockabill, one Hawk and one Common Wren, 4 p.m., wind light S.,
clear; Hawk hovering about rock. Rathlin O'Birne, four Plover, 7.30
a.m., wind strong S.W., overcast, remained until Nov. 7th; continuous
flocks of Gannets and Sea Gulls.

2_nd._--Rockabill, one Common Wren, four Titmice, 8 a.m., wind
strong S.E., clear. Rathlin Island, seventy Starlings, 7 a.m., wind
strong S.E., overcast, young birds coming from E. Broadhaven, thirty
Barnacles, 10 a.m., wind fresh N.W., clear. Arran Island South, two
Woodcocks, 3.15 p.m., wind strong S.S.E., overcast, going E.

3_rd._--No entry.

4_th._--Rockabill, thirteen large birds like Ducks or Wigeon two miles
off, 10 a.m., wind light S.S.W., clear, flying S. Rathlin Island,
thirty-seven Starlings, 11 a.m., wind fresh S.E., clear, coming from
E. Oyster Island North, small flocks of Wigeon and Barnacle, 10 to 12
a.m., wind fresh S.S.W., gloomy. Broadhaven, five Solan Geese, 11.10
a.m., wind strong S., clear.

5_th._--Tuskar, five Swallows going S., 2.30 p.m., wind fresh S.W.,
blue sky; continuous flocks of Puffins, 2 to 4 p.m., going westward.
Kish Bank Lt.-ship, several flocks of Barnacle, wind W. and S.W., clear.

6_th._--Barrels Rock Lt.-ship, flocks of Starlings, 9 to 11.30 p.m.,
wind light S.S.W., overcast, apparently going N.E. Kish Bank Lt.-ship,
several flocks of Barnacle, wind S.W., clear. Broadhaven, twelve Wild
Geese, 8.10 a.m., wind very strong S., foggy.

7_th._--Barrels Rock Lt.-ship, small flock of Linnets, 10.30 a.m., wind
fresh S.S.E., heavy rain, hazy, going N.E. Rathlin Island, forty Black
Crows, 3 p.m., wind fresh S.W., clear, going S. Arran Island North, ten
Gannets, wind fresh S.W., gloomy: also a large flock of Gulls.

8_th._--Kish Bank Lt.-ship, several flocks of Wild Ducks, wind S.W.,
gloomy. Innishtrahull, one small Hawk, 10 a.m., wind fresh S.E., hazy.

9_th._--Howth Baily, twenty-nine Crows flying to the south, 12.10 p.m.,
wind light S.W., gloomy.

10_th._--Rathlin Island, 600 Gulls, 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., wind fresh S.E.,
gloomy, on the water. Clare Island, flocks of Grey Linnets, 7.30 a.m.,
wind strong S.S.W., cloudy, going S. Slyne Head North, continuous
flocks of Barnacle going S. from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m., wind fresh S.W.,
rain.

11_th._--Oyster Island North, flock of Starlings and Lapwings, 11.30
a.m., wind light S.E., gloomy, Starlings apparently old birds.

12_th._--Rathlin Island, 400 Gulls, 7 a.m. to 2 p.m., wind very strong
N.W., gloomy, on the water. Slyne Head North, one Blackbird, 4 a.m.,
wind light S.W., misty, killed.

13_th._--Kish Bank Lt.-ship, a flock of Chaffinches going from E. to
W., clear.

14_th._--No entry.

15_th._--Copeland Island, eleven Snow Buntings, 3 p.m., wind strong W.,
went to mainland. Clare Island, small flock of Wild Ducks, 4 p.m., wind
very strong W., cloudy, ugly, going S.E.

16_th._--Howth Baily, seven Cormorants flying N., 11.15 a.m., wind
fresh S.W., cloudy. Rathlin Island, seven Gannets, 4 p.m., wind very
strong N.W., gloomy, going E.

17_th._--Rathlin Island, thirty Linnets, 11 a.m., wind strong N.W.,
showers, going S.

18_th._--Coningbeg Lt.-ship, four Gannets, 10 a.m., wind fresh S.,
rain, flying E. Two Larks killed. Kish Bank Lt.-ship, a large flock
of Starlings going from E. to W., hazy. Copeland Island, six Magpies,
10.30 a.m., wind fresh S.E., went to mainland. Oyster Island North,
fifty Barnacle, 10.20 a.m., wind light S.E., rain, going S.E.

19_th._--Rathlin O'Birne, eight "Sepoys," 8 a.m., wind strong S.,
overcast.

20_th._--Galley Head, fifty Golden Plovers, 1 p.m., wind fresh E.N.E.,
clear, frosty, flying N. Coningbeg Lt.-ship, Gannets from 9 a.m. to 4
p.m., passing E. and W. in two's and four's, wind strong S.W., clear.
Rathlin Island, seventeen Golden Plover, 10 a.m., wind very strong W.,
clear, came from north, stopped on island. Slyne Head North, flock of
Rooks going N., 12 noon, wind light S., rain.

21_st._--Coningbeg Lt.-ship, Gannets from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m., passing E.
and W., wind strong W.

22_nd._--Arran Island South, large numbers of Skua Gulls passing, wind
W., stormy, rain, thunder, going S.

23_rd._--Barrels Rock Lt.-ship, flock of ten Gannets, 3 p.m., wind
strong N.W., clear, going W. Rathlin Island, thirty-six Starlings, 3
p.m., wind very strong S.W., clear, young birds coming from N.

24_th._--No entry.

25_th._--Tuskar, one Golden Eagle, 8 a.m., wind strong S.W., overcast,
going N.W. Clare Island, large flock of Pigeons, 1 p.m., wind very
strong S., gloomy, rain, going W.

26_th._--Barrels Rock Lt.-ship, one Stormy Petrel, 2 p.m., wind very
strong S.S.W., rain; remained at ship all the evening. Innishtrahull,
Rooks, 2 p.m., stormy.

27_th._--Rathlin Island, fifty Black Crows, 10 a.m., wind very strong
S.W., rain, squally, overcast, coming from S. Innishtrahull, Rooks, 12
noon, stormy. Clare Island, large flock of Grey Linnets, 8 a.m., wind
very strong W.N.W., cloudy, going S.

28_th._--Rathlin O'Birne, nine Barnacle, 4 p.m., wind strong W.N.W.,
rainy. Oyster Island North, small flocks of Barnacle and Wigeon, 10.30
a.m. to 2 p.m., wind strong N.W., showery, going N.W.

29_th._--Galley Head, eleven Gannets going E., 5.30 p.m., wind strong
W.S.W.

30_th._--Slyne Head North, two Starlings and three Thrushes, 5 a.m.,
wind light S.W., rain, all killed.

DECEMBER.

1_st._--Rathlin Island, six Gannets, 9 a.m., wind strong S., clear,
going E. Rathlin O'Birne, five Barnacle, 3.40 p.m., wind strong S.,
overcast. Broadhaven, twenty Barnacle, 1.10 p.m., wind fresh S.W.,
rain. Slyne Head North, flock of Barnacle going S., 11 a.m., wind fresh
S.W., showers.

2_nd._--Broadhaven, eighteen Barnacle, 2.10 p.m., wind fresh S.W.,
clear.

3_rd._--Mine Head, "Grey" and Green Plovers from sunrise to sunset,
wind light N., frosty, above fifty in a flock. Galley Head, five
Gannets going W., 10 a.m., wind strong W., rain.

4_th._--Barrels Rock Lt.-ship, large flock of Plover, 11 a.m., wind
light S.W., clear, going S.E. Rathlin O'Birne, thirteen Barnacle, 8
p.m., wind fresh S., overcast. Clare Island, large flock of Wild Ducks,
3 p.m., wind strong S.W., fog, rain, going S.E.

5_th._--No entry.

6_th._--Rathlin O'Birne, fourteen Barnacle, 4 p.m., wind stormy S.,
rain.

7_th._--Rathlin Island, thirty-seven Starlings, 10 a.m., wind stormy
S.W., clear, coming from N.

8_th._--Broadhaven, fourteen Wild Geese, 1.10 p.m., wind fresh W., rain.

9_th._--No entry.

10_th._--Kish Bank Lt.-ship, a flock of Ducks, 1.30 p.m., wind mod.
W.N.W., hazy. Rathlin Island, fifteen Linnets, 9 a.m., wind light S.W.,
overcast, going S. Rathlin O'Birne, five Barnacle, 3 p.m., wind fresh
N.E., overcast. Broadhaven, one Solan Goose, 10.10 a.m., wind strong
S.W., clear. Clare Island, small flock of Pigeons, 11 a.m., wind light
E.S.E., blue sky, going W.

11_th._--Mine Head, large flocks of "Grey" and Green Plovers from
sunrise to sunset, wind light N., frosty. Oyster Island North, large
flock of Barnacle, 1 p.m., wind light S.E., thick, going S.E. Slyne
Head North, continuous flocks of Gulls and Gannets going N., 8 a.m. to
2 p.m., wind light S.E., clear.

12_th._--Old Head, Kinsale, continuous flocks of Lapwing from 10 a.m.
to 3.45 p.m., wind light N.E., clear, flying south; the first and only
ones seen this season. Mine Head, seven "Wild Geese," 2 p.m., wind
light N., frosty, going south; five "Wild Ducks," noon, wind N. Rathlin
Island, 200 Gulls, 7 a.m., wind strong S.W., gloomy, on the water.
Broadhaven, twelve Barnacle, 11.10 a.m., wind strong S., clear.

13_th._--Oyster Island North, several flocks of Barnacle and Wigeon, 10
a.m. to 12.30 p.m., wind fresh S.S.E., gloomy, going S.E.

14_th._--No entry.

15_th._--Rathlin Island, 300 Gulls, 2 p.m., wind stormy N.W., showery,
flying about.


       *       *       *       *       *


Transcriber Note

Minor typos were corrected. Some station tables split by a page break
were rejoined. On p. 69, under Wood Pigeon, the date of the August
observation is missing and "--" was inserted.







*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK REPORT ON THE MIGRATION OF BIRDS IN
THE SPRING AND AUTUMN OF 1881 ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
